Metaverse has recently attracted much attention from both academia and
industry. Virtual services, ranging from virtual driver training to online
route optimization for smart goods delivery, are emerging in the Metaverse. To
make the human experience of virtual life more real, digital twins (DTs),
namely digital replicas of physical objects, are key enablers. However, DT
status may not always accurately reflect that of its real-world twin because
the latter may be subject to changes with time. As such, it is necessary to
synchronize a DT with its physical counterpart to ensure that its status is
accurate for virtual businesses in the Metaverse. In this paper, we propose a
dynamic hierarchical framework in which a group of IoT devices is incentivized
to sense and collect physical objects' status information collectively so as to
assists virtual service providers (VSPs) in synchronizing DTs. Based on the
collected sensing data and the value decay rate of the DTs, the VSPs can
determine synchronization intensities to maximize their payoffs. In our
proposed dynamic hierarchical framework, the lower-level evolutionary game
captures the VSPs selection by the IoT device population, and the upper-level
differential game captures the VSPs payoffs, which are affected by the
synchronization strategy, IoT devices selections, and the DTs value status,
given VSPs are simultaneous decision makers. We further consider the case in
which some VSPs are first movers and extend it as a Stackelberg differential
game. We theoretically and experimentally show that the equilibrium to the
lower-level game exists and is evolutionarily robust, and provide a sensitivity
analysis with respect to various system parameters. Experiments show that the
proposed dynamic hierarchical game outperform the baseline.
---------------------------------
Dubbed as the next-generation Internet, the metaverse is a virtual world that
allows users to interact with each other or objects in real-time using their
avatars. The metaverse is envisioned to support novel ecosystems of service
provision in an immersive environment brought about by an intersection of the
virtual and physical worlds. The native AI systems in metaverse will
personalized user experience over time and shape the experience in a scalable,
seamless, and synchronous way. However, the metaverse is characterized by
diverse resource types amid a highly dynamic demand environment. In this paper,
we propose the case study of virtual education in the metaverse and address the
unified resource allocation problem amid stochastic user demand. We propose a
stochastic optimal resource allocation scheme (SORAS) based on stochastic
integer programming with the objective of minimizing the cost of the virtual
service provider. The simulation results show that SORAS can minimize the cost
of the virtual service provider while accounting for the users' demands
uncertainty.
---------------------------------
Metaverse encapsulates our expectations of the next-generation Internet,
while bringing new key performance indicators (KPIs). Although conventional
ultra-reliable and low-latency communications (URLLC) can satisfy objective
KPIs, it is difficult to provide a personalized immersive experience that is a
distinctive feature of the Metaverse. Since the quality of experience (QoE) can
be regarded as a comprehensive KPI, the URLLC is evolved towards the next
generation URLLC (xURLLC) with a personalized resource allocation scheme to
achieve higher QoE. To deploy Metaverse xURLLC services, we study the
interaction between the Metaverse service provider (MSP) and the network
infrastructure provider (InP), and provide an optimal contract design
framework. Specifically, the utility of the MSP, defined as a function of
Metaverse users' QoE, is to be maximized, while ensuring the incentives of the
InP. To model the QoE mathematically, we propose a novel metric named
Meta-Immersion that incorporates both the objective KPIs and subjective
feelings of Metaverse users. Furthermore, we develop an attention-aware
rendering capacity allocation scheme to improve QoE in xURLLC. Using a
user-object-attention level dataset, we validate that the xURLLC can achieve an
average of 20.1% QoE improvement compared to the conventional URLLC with a
uniform resource allocation scheme.
---------------------------------
Recently, Metaverse has attracted increasing attention from both industry and
academia, because of the significant potential to integrate real and digital
worlds ever more seamlessly. By combining advanced wireless communications,
edge computing and virtual reality (VR) technologies into Metaverse, a
multidimensional, intelligent and powerful wireless edge Metaverse is created
for future human society. In this paper, we design a privacy preserving
targeted advertising strategy for the wireless edge Metaverse. Specifically, a
Metaverse service provider (MSP) allocates bandwidth to the VR users so that
the users can access Metaverse from edge access points. To protect users'
privacy, the covert communication technique is used in the downlink. Then, the
MSP can offer high-quality access services to earn more profits. Motivated by
the concept of "covert", targeted advertising is used to promote the sale of
bandwidth and ensure that the advertising strategy cannot be detected by
competitors who may make counter-offer and by attackers who want to disrupt the
services. We derive the best advertising strategy in terms of budget input,
with the help of the Vidale-Wolfe model and Hamiltonian function. Furthermore,
we propose a novel metric named Meta-Immersion to represent the user's
experience feelings. The performance evaluation shows that the MSP can boost
its revenue with an optimal targeted advertising strategy, especially compared
with that without the advertising.
---------------------------------
The Metaverse is regarded as the next-generation Internet paradigm that
allows humans to play, work, and socialize in an alternative virtual world with
immersive experience, for instance, via head-mounted display for Virtual
Reality (VR) rendering. With the help of ubiquitous wireless connections and
powerful edge computing technologies, VR users in wireless edge-empowered
Metaverse can immerse in the virtual through the access of VR services offered
by different providers. However, VR applications are computation- and
communication-intensive. The VR service providers (SPs) have to optimize the VR
service delivery efficiently and economically given their limited communication
and computation resources. An incentive mechanism can be thus applied as an
effective tool for managing VR services between providers and users. Therefore,
in this paper, we propose a learning-based Incentive Mechanism framework for VR
services in the Metaverse. First, we propose the quality of perception as the
metric for VR users immersing in the virtual world. Second, for quick trading
of VR services between VR users (i.e., buyers) and VR SPs (i.e., sellers), we
design a double Dutch auction mechanism to determine optimal pricing and
allocation rules in this market. Third, for auction communication reduction, we
design a deep reinforcement learning-based auctioneer to accelerate this
auction process. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework
can achieve near-optimal social welfare while reducing at least half of the
auction information exchange cost than baseline methods.
---------------------------------
We present a state of the art and positioning book, about Digital society
tools, namely; Web3, Bitcoin, Metaverse, AI/ML, accessibility, safeguarding and
telecollaboration. A high level overview of Web3 technologies leads to a
description of blockchain, and the Bitcoin network is specifically selected for
detailed examination. Suitable components of the extended Bitcoin ecosystem are
described in more depth. Other mechanisms for native digital value transfer are
described, with a focus on `money'. Metaverse technology is over-viewed,
primarily from the perspective of Bitcoin and extended reality. Bitcoin is
selected as the best contender for value transfer in metaverses because of it's
free and open source nature, and network effect. Challenges and risks of this
approach are identified. A cloud deployable virtual machine based technology
stack deployment guide with a focus on cybersecurity best practice can be
downloaded from GitHub to experiment with the technologies. This deployable lab
is designed to inform development of secure value transaction, for small and
medium sized companies.
---------------------------------
The Metaverse refers to a virtual-physical blended space in which multiple
users can concurrently interact with a unified computer-generated environment
and other users, which can be regarded as the next significant milestone of the
current cyberspace. This article primarily discusses the development and
challenges of the Metaverse. We first briefly describe the development of
cyberspace and the necessity of technology enablers. Accordingly, our bottom-up
approach highlights three critical technology enablers for the Metaverse:
networks, systems, and users. Also, we highlight a number of indispensable
issues, under technological and ecosystem perspectives, that build and sustain
the Metaverse.
---------------------------------
Creating and maintaining the Metaverse requires enormous resources that have
never been seen before, especially computing resources for intensive data
processing to support the extended reality, enormous storage resources, and
massive networking resources for maintaining ultra high-speed and low-latency
connections. Therefore, this work aims to propose a novel framework, namely
MetaSlicing, that can provide a highly effective and comprehensive solution in
managing and allocating different types of resources for Metaverse
applications. In particular, by observing that Metaverse applications may have
common functions, we first propose grouping applications into clusters, called
MetaInstances. In a MetaInstance, common functions can be shared among
applications. As such, the same resources can be used by multiple applications
simultaneously, thereby enhancing resource utilization dramatically. To address
the real-time characteristic and resource demand's dynamic and uncertainty in
the Metaverse, we develop an effective framework based on the semi-Markov
decision process and propose an intelligent admission control algorithm that
can maximize resource utilization and enhance the Quality-of-Service for
end-users. Extensive simulation results show that our proposed solution
outperforms the Greedy-based policy by up to 80% and 47% in terms of long-term
revenue for Metaverse providers and request acceptance probability,
respectively.
---------------------------------
In the Metaverse, the physical space and the virtual space co-exist, and
interact simultaneously. While the physical space is virtually enhanced with
information, the virtual space is continuously refreshed with real-time,
real-world information. To allow users to process and manipulate information
seamlessly between the real and digital spaces, novel technologies must be
developed. These include smart interfaces, new augmented realities, efficient
storage and data management and dissemination techniques. In this paper, we
first discuss some promising co-space applications. These applications offer
experiences and opportunities that neither of the spaces can realize on its
own. We then argue that the database community has much to offer to this field.
Finally, we present several challenges that we, as a community, can contribute
towards managing the Metaverse.
---------------------------------
Since Facebook was renamed Meta, a lot of attention, debate, and exploration
have intensified about what the Metaverse is, how it works, and the possible
ways to exploit it. It is anticipated that Metaverse will be a continuum of
rapidly emerging technologies, usecases, capabilities, and experiences that
will make it up for the next evolution of the Internet. Several researchers
have already surveyed the literature on artificial intelligence (AI) and
wireless communications in realizing the Metaverse. However, due to the rapid
emergence and continuous evolution of technologies, there is a need for a
comprehensive and in-depth survey of the role of AI, 6G, and the nexus of both
in realizing the immersive experiences of Metaverse. Therefore, in this survey,
we first introduce the background and ongoing progress in augmented reality
(AR), virtual reality (VR), mixed reality (MR) and spatial computing, followed
by the technical aspects of AI and 6G. Then, we survey the role of AI in the
Metaverse by reviewing the state-of-the-art in deep learning, computer vision,
and Edge AI to extract the requirements of 6G in Metaverse. Next, we
investigate the promising services of B5G/6G towards Metaverse, followed by
identifying the role of AI in 6G networks and 6G networks for AI in support of
Metaverse applications, and the need for sustainability in Metaverse. Finally,
we enlist the existing and potential applications, usecases, and projects to
highlight the importance of progress in the Metaverse. Moreover, in order to
provide potential research directions to researchers, we underline the
challenges, research gaps, and lessons learned identified from the literature
review of the aforementioned technologies.
---------------------------------
During the COVID-19 pandemic, most countries have experienced some form of
remote education through video conferencing software platforms. However, these
software platforms fail to reduce immersion and replicate the classroom
experience. The currently emerging Metaverse addresses many of such limitations
by offering blended physical-digital environments. This paper aims to assess
how the Metaverse can support and improve e-learning. We first survey the
latest applications of blended environments in education and highlight the
primary challenges and opportunities. Accordingly, we derive our proposal for a
virtual-physical blended classroom configuration that brings students and
teachers into a shared educational Metaverse. We focus on the system
architecture of the Metaverse classroom to achieve real-time synchronization of
a large number of participants and activities across physical (mixed reality
classrooms) and virtual (remote VR platform) learning spaces. Our proposal
attempts to transform the traditional physical classroom into virtual-physical
cyberspace as a new social network of learners and educators connected at an
unprecedented scale.
---------------------------------
As the next-generation Internet paradigm, Web 3.0 encapsulates the
expectations of user-centric immersion and interaction experiences in a
decentralized manner. Metaverse, a virtual world interacting with the physical
world, is becoming one of the most potential technology to push forward with
Web 3.0. In the Metaverse, users expect to tailor immersive and interactive
experiences by customizing real-time Metaverse services (e.g.,
augmented/virtual reality and digital twin) in the three-dimensional virtual
world. Nevertheless, there are still no unified solutions for the Metaverse
services in terms of management and orchestration. It is calling for a
continuous evolution of scalable solutions and mobile systems to support
Metaverse services, and thus bring Metaverse into reality. In this paper, to
provide scalable subscription solutions for Metaverse services, we propose a
new concept, named Metaverse-as-a-Service (MaaS), in which various
physical-virtual components and technologies in the Metaverse can be delivered
as services. Furthermore, to unify the management and orchestration of MaaS, we
propose a novel framework, called Slicing4Meta, to customize Metaverse services
by intelligently integrating MaaS models and the associated multi-dimensional
resources on the components and technologies. Additionally, we propose the
classification for typical Metaverse services based on the quality of
experience (QoE) requirements and illustrate how to fulfill the QoE
requirements under the Slicing4Meta framework. We then illustrate a virtual
traveling study case, in which we examine the relationship between the QoE and
the multi-dimensional resources by quantitatively modeling the QoE of Metaverse
users. Finally, we discuss some open challenges of Slicing4Meta and propose
potential solutions to address the challenges.
---------------------------------
Although Metaverse has recently been widely studied, its practical
application still faces many challenges. One of the severe challenges is the
lack of sufficient resources for computing and communication on local devices,
resulting in the inability to access the Metaverse services. To address this
issue, this paper proposes a practical blockchain-based mobile edge computing
(MEC) platform for resource sharing and optimal utilization to complete the
requested offloading tasks, given the heterogeneity of servers' available
resources and that of users' task requests. To be specific, we first elaborate
the design of our proposed system and then dive into the task allocation
mechanism to assign offloading tasks to proper servers. To solve the multiple
task allocation (MTA) problem in polynomial time, we devise a learning-based
algorithm. Since the objective function and constraints of MTA are
significantly affected by the servers uploading the tasks, we reformulate it as
a reinforcement learning problem and calculate the rewards for each state and
action considering the influences of servers. Finally, numerous experiments are
conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our proposed
system and algorithms.
---------------------------------
The Metaverse is a virtual environment where users are represented by avatars
to navigate a virtual world, which has strong links with the physical one.
State-of-the-art Metaverse architectures rely on a cloud-based approach for
avatar physics emulation and graphics rendering computation. Such centralized
design is unfavorable as it suffers from several drawbacks caused by the long
latency required for cloud access, such as low quality visualization. To solve
this issue, in this paper, we propose a Fog-Edge hybrid computing architecture
for Metaverse applications that leverage an edge-enabled distributed computing
paradigm, which makes use of edge devices computing power to fulfil the
required computational cost for heavy tasks such as collision detection in
virtual universe and computation of 3D physics in virtual simulation. The
computational cost related to an entity in the Metaverse such as collision
detection or physics emulation are performed at the end-device of the
associated physical entity. To prove the effectiveness of the proposed
architecture, we simulate a distributed social metaverse application.
Simulation results shows that the proposed architecture can reduce the latency
by 50% when compared with the legacy cloud-based Metaverse applications.
---------------------------------
In recent years, the metaverse has attracted enormous attention from around
the world with the development of related technologies. The expected metaverse
should be a realistic society with more direct and physical interactions, while
the concepts of race, gender, and even physical disability would be weakened,
which would be highly beneficial for society. However, the development of
metaverse is still in its infancy, with great potential for improvement.
Regarding metaverse's huge potential, industry has already come forward with
advance preparation, accompanied by feverish investment, but there are few
discussions about metaverse in academia to scientifically guide its
development. In this paper, we highlight the representative applications for
social good. Then we propose a three-layer metaverse architecture from a macro
perspective, containing infrastructure, interaction, and ecosystem. Moreover,
we journey toward both a historical and novel metaverse with a detailed
timeline and table of specific attributes. Lastly, we illustrate our
implemented blockchain-driven metaverse prototype of a university campus and
discuss the prototype design and insights.
---------------------------------
Along with the massive growth of the Internet from the 1990s until now,
various innovative technologies have been created to bring users breathtaking
experiences with more virtual interactions in cyberspace. Many virtual
environments with thousands of services and applications, from social networks
to virtual gaming worlds, have been developed with immersive experience and
digital transformation, but most are incoherent instead of being integrated
into a platform. In this context, metaverse, a term formed by combining meta
and universe, has been introduced as a shared virtual world that is fueled by
many emerging technologies, such as fifth-generation networks and beyond,
virtual reality, and artificial intelligence (AI). Among such technologies, AI
has shown the great importance of processing big data to enhance immersive
experience and enable human-like intelligence of virtual agents. In this
survey, we make a beneficial effort to explore the role of AI in the foundation
and development of the metaverse. We first deliver a preliminary of AI,
including machine learning algorithms and deep learning architectures, and its
role in the metaverse. We then convey a comprehensive investigation of AI-based
methods concerning six technical aspects that have potentials for the
metaverse: natural language processing, machine vision, blockchain, networking,
digital twin, and neural interface, and being potential for the metaverse.
Subsequently, several AI-aided applications, such as healthcare, manufacturing,
smart cities, and gaming, are studied to be deployed in the virtual worlds.
Finally, we conclude the key contribution of this survey and open some future
research directions in AI for the metaverse.
---------------------------------
Recently, significant research efforts have been initiated to enable the
next-generation, namely, the sixth-generation (6G) wireless systems. In this
article, we present a vision of metaverse towards effectively enabling the
development of 6G wireless systems. A metaverse will use virtual representation
(e.g., digital twin), digital avatars, and interactive experience technologies
(e.g., extended reality) to assist analyses, optimizations, and operations of
various wireless applications. Specifically, the metaverse can offer virtual
wireless system operations through the digital twin that allows network
designers, mobile developers, and telecommunications engineers to monitor,
observe, analyze, and simulations their solutions collaboratively and
virtually. We first introduce a general architecture for metaverse-based
wireless systems. We discuss key driving applications, design trends, and key
enablers of metaverse-based wireless systems. Finally, we present several open
challenges and their potential solutions.
---------------------------------
Metaverse is an interactive world that combines reality and virtuality, where
participants can be virtual avatars. Anyone can hold a concert in a virtual
concert hall, and users can quickly identify the real singer behind the virtual
idol through the singer identification. Most singer identification methods are
processed using the frame-level features. However, expect the singer's timbre,
the music frame includes music information, such as melodiousness, rhythm, and
tonal. It means the music information is noise for using frame-level features
to identify the singers. In this paper, instead of only the frame-level
features, we propose to use another two features that address this problem.
Middle-level feature, which represents the music's melodiousness, rhythmic
stability, and tonal stability, and is able to capture the perceptual features
of music. The timbre feature, which is used in speaker identification,
represents the singers' voice features. Furthermore, we propose a convolutional
recurrent neural network (CRNN) to combine three features for singer
identification. The model firstly fuses the frame-level feature and timbre
feature and then combines middle-level features to the mix features. In
experiments, the proposed method achieves comparable performance on an average
F1 score of 0.81 on the benchmark dataset of Artist20, which significantly
improves related works.
---------------------------------
Metaverse, with the combination of the prefix "meta" (meaning transcending)
and the word "universe", has been deemed as the next-generation (NextG)
Internet. It aims to create a shared virtual space that connects all virtual
worlds via the Internet, where users, represented as digital avatars, can
communicate and collaborate as if they are in the physical world. Nevertheless,
there is still no unified definition of the Metaverse. This article first
presents our vision of what the key requirements of Metaverse should be and
reviews what has been heavily advocated by the industry and the positions of
various high-tech companies. It then briefly introduces existing social virtual
reality (VR) platforms that can be viewed as early prototypes of Metaverse and
conducts a reality check by diving into the network operation and performance
of two representative platforms, Workrooms from Meta and AltspaceVR from
Microsoft. Finally, it concludes by discussing several opportunities and future
directions for further innovation.
---------------------------------
Virtual reality (VR) telepresence applications and the so-called "metaverse"
promise to be the next major medium of interaction with the internet. However,
with numerous recent studies showing the ease at which VR users can be
profiled, deanonymized, and data harvested, metaverse platforms carry all the
privacy risks of the current internet and more while at present having none of
the defensive privacy tools we are accustomed to using on the web. To remedy
this, we present the first known method of implementing an "incognito mode" for
VR. Our technique leverages local differential privacy to quantifiably obscure
sensitive user data attributes, with a focus on intelligently adding noise when
and where it is needed most to maximize privacy while minimizing usability
impact. Moreover, our system is capable of flexibly adapting to the unique
needs of each metaverse application to further optimize this trade-off. We
implement our solution as a universal Unity (C#) plugin that we then evaluate
using several popular VR applications. Upon faithfully replicating the most
well-known VR privacy attack studies, we show a significant degradation of
attacker capabilities when using our proposed solution.
---------------------------------
The metaverse is expected to be the next major evolution phase of the
internet. The metaverse will have an impact on human society, production, and
life. In this work, we analyze the current trends and challenges that building
such a virtual environment will face. We focus on three major pillars to guide
the development of the metaverse: privacy, governance, and ethical design, to
guide the development of the metaverse. Finally, we propose a preliminary
modular-based framework for an ethical design of the metaverse.
---------------------------------
The metaverse has the potential to revolutionize the next generation of the
Internet by supporting highly interactive services with the help of Mixed
Reality (MR) technologies; still, to provide a satisfactory experience for
users, the synchronization between the physical world and its digital models is
crucial. This work proposes a sampling, communication and prediction co-design
framework to minimize the communication load subject to a constraint on
tracking the Mean Squared Error (MSE) between a real-world device and its
digital model in the metaverse. To optimize the sampling rate and the
prediction horizon, we exploit expert knowledge and develop a constrained Deep
Reinforcement Learning (DRL) algorithm, named Knowledge-assisted Constrained
Twin-Delayed Deep Deterministic (KC-TD3) policy gradient algorithm. We validate
our framework on a prototype composed of a real-world robotic arm and its
digital model. Compared with existing approaches: (1) When the tracking error
constraint is stringent (MSE=0.002 degrees), our policy degenerates into the
policy in the sampling-communication co-design framework. (2) When the tracking
error constraint is mild (MSE=0.007 degrees), our policy degenerates into the
policy in the prediction-communication co-design framework. (3) Our framework
achieves a better trade-off between the average MSE and the average
communication load compared with a communication system without sampling and
prediction. For example, the average communication load can be reduced up to
87% when the track error constraint is 0.002 degrees. (4) Our policy
outperforms the benchmark with the static sampling rate and prediction horizon
optimized by exhaustive search, in terms of the tail probability of the
tracking error. Furthermore, with the assistance of expert knowledge, the
proposed algorithm KC-TD3 achieves better convergence time, stability, and
final policy performance.
---------------------------------
Metaverse provides an alternative platform for human interaction in the
virtual world. Since virtual platform holds few restrictions in changing the
surrounding environments or the appearance of the avatars, it can serve as a
platform that reflects human thoughts or even dreams at least in the metaverse
world. When it is merged together with the current brain-computer interface
(BCI) technology, which enables system control via brain signals, a new
paradigm of human interaction through mind may be established in the metaverse
conditions. Recent BCI systems are aiming to provide user-friendly and
intuitive means of communication using brain signals. Imagined speech has
become an alternative neuro-paradigm for communicative BCI since it relies
directly on a person's speech production process, rather than using
speech-unrelated neural activity as the means of communication. In this paper,
we propose a brain-to-speech (BTS) system for real-world smart communication
using brain signals. Also, we show a demonstration of imagined speech based
smart home control through communication with a virtual assistant, which can be
one of the future applications of brain-metaverse system. We performed
pseudo-online analysis using imagined speech electroencephalography data of
nine subjects to investigate the potential use of virtual BTS system in the
real-world. Average accuracy of 46.54 % (chance level = 7.7 %) and 75.56 %
(chance level = 50 %) was acquired in the thirteen-class and binary
pseudo-online analysis, respectively. Our results support the potential of
imagined speech based smart communication to be applied in the metaverse world.
---------------------------------
The metaverse is regarded as a new wave of technological transformation that
provides a virtual space for people to interact through digital avatars. To
achieve immersive user experiences in the metaverse, real-time rendering is the
key technology. However, computing-intensive tasks of real-time rendering from
metaverse service providers cannot be processed efficiently on a single
resource-limited mobile device. Alternatively, such mobile devices can offload
the metaverse rendering tasks to other mobile devices by adopting the
collaborative computing paradigm based on Coded Distributed Computing (CDC).
Therefore, this paper introduces a hierarchical game-theoretic CDC framework
for the metaverse services, especially for the vehicular metaverse. In the
framework, idle resources from vehicles, acting as CDC workers, are aggregated
to handle intensive computation tasks in the vehicular metaverse. Specifically,
in the upper layer, a miner coalition formation game is formulated based on a
reputation metric to select reliable workers. To guarantee the reliable
management of reputation values, the reputation values calculated based on the
subjective logical model are maintained in a blockchain database. In the lower
layer, a Stackelberg game-based incentive mechanism is considered to attract
reliable workers selected in the upper layer to participate in rendering tasks.
The simulation results illustrate that the proposed framework is resistant to
malicious workers. Compared with the best-effort worker selection scheme, the
proposed scheme can improve the utility of metaverse service provider and the
average profit of CDC workers.
---------------------------------
Metaverse, as an evolving paradigm of the next-generation Internet, aims to
build a fully immersive, hyper spatiotemporal, and self-sustaining virtual
shared space for humans to play, work, and socialize. Driven by recent advances
in emerging technologies such as extended reality, artificial intelligence, and
blockchain, metaverse is stepping from science fiction to an upcoming reality.
However, severe privacy invasions and security breaches (inherited from
underlying technologies or emerged in the new digital ecology) of metaverse can
impede its wide deployment. At the same time, a series of fundamental
challenges (e.g., scalability and interoperability) can arise in metaverse
security provisioning owing to the intrinsic characteristics of metaverse, such
as immersive realism, hyper spatiotemporality, sustainability, and
heterogeneity. In this paper, we present a comprehensive survey of the
fundamentals, security, and privacy of metaverse. Specifically, we first
investigate a novel distributed metaverse architecture and its key
characteristics with ternary-world interactions. Then, we discuss the security
and privacy threats, present the critical challenges of metaverse systems, and
review the state-of-the-art countermeasures. Finally, we draw open research
directions for building future metaverse systems.
---------------------------------
Autonomous bin picking poses significant challenges to vision-driven robotic
systems given the complexity of the problem, ranging from various sensor
modalities, to highly entangled object layouts, to diverse item properties and
gripper types. Existing methods often address the problem from one perspective.
Diverse items and complex bin scenes require diverse picking strategies
together with advanced reasoning. As such, to build robust and effective
machine-learning algorithms for solving this complex task requires significant
amounts of comprehensive and high quality data. Collecting such data in real
world would be too expensive and time prohibitive and therefore intractable
from a scalability perspective. To tackle this big, diverse data problem, we
take inspiration from the recent rise in the concept of metaverses, and
introduce MetaGraspNet, a large-scale photo-realistic bin picking dataset
constructed via physics-based metaverse synthesis. The proposed dataset
contains 217k RGBD images across 82 different article types, with full
annotations for object detection, amodal perception, keypoint detection,
manipulation order and ambidextrous grasp labels for a parallel-jaw and vacuum
gripper. We also provide a real dataset consisting of over 2.3k fully annotated
high-quality RGBD images, divided into 5 levels of difficulties and an unseen
object set to evaluate different object and layout properties. Finally, we
conduct extensive experiments showing that our proposed vacuum seal model and
synthetic dataset achieves state-of-the-art performance and generalizes to real
world use-cases.
---------------------------------
Human habitation across multiple planets requires communication and social
connection between planets. When the infrastructure of a deep space network
becomes mature, immersive cyberspace, known as the Metaverse, can exchange
diversified user data and host multitudinous virtual worlds. Nevertheless, such
immersive cyberspace unavoidably encounters latency in minutes, and thus
operates in a turn-taking manner. This Blue Sky paper illustrates a vision of
an interplanetary Metaverse that connects Earthian and Martian users in a
turn-based Metaverse. Accordingly, we briefly discuss several grand challenges
to catalyze research initiatives for the `Digital Big Bang' on Mars.
---------------------------------
There has been increasing interest in smart factories powered by robotics
systems to tackle repetitive, laborious tasks. One impactful yet challenging
task in robotics-powered smart factory applications is robotic grasping: using
robotic arms to grasp objects autonomously in different settings. Robotic
grasping requires a variety of computer vision tasks such as object detection,
segmentation, grasp prediction, pick planning, etc. While significant progress
has been made in leveraging of machine learning for robotic grasping,
particularly with deep learning, a big challenge remains in the need for
large-scale, high-quality RGBD datasets that cover a wide diversity of
scenarios and permutations. To tackle this big, diverse data problem, we are
inspired by the recent rise in the concept of metaverse, which has greatly
closed the gap between virtual worlds and the physical world. Metaverses allow
us to create digital twins of real-world manufacturing scenarios and to
virtually create different scenarios from which large volumes of data can be
generated for training models. In this paper, we present MetaGraspNet: a
large-scale benchmark dataset for vision-driven robotic grasping via
physics-based metaverse synthesis. The proposed dataset contains 100,000 images
and 25 different object types and is split into 5 difficulties to evaluate
object detection and segmentation model performance in different grasping
scenarios. We also propose a new layout-weighted performance metric alongside
the dataset for evaluating object detection and segmentation performance in a
manner that is more appropriate for robotic grasp applications compared to
existing general-purpose performance metrics. Our benchmark dataset is
available open-source on Kaggle, with the first phase consisting of detailed
object detection, segmentation, layout annotations, and a layout-weighted
performance metric script.
---------------------------------
The worlds of computing, communication, and storage have for a long time been
treated separately, and even the recent trends of cloud computing, distributed
computing, and mobile edge computing have not fundamentally changed the role of
networks, still designed to move data between end users and pre-determined
computation nodes, without true optimization of the end-to-end
compute-communication process. However, the emergence of Metaverse
applications, where users consume multimedia experiences that result from the
real-time combination of distributed live sources and stored digital assets,
has changed the requirements for, and possibilities of, systems that provide
distributed caching, computation, and communication. We argue that the
real-time interactive nature and high demands on data storage, streaming rates,
and processing power of Metaverse applications will accelerate the merging of
the cloud into the network, leading to highly-distributed tightly-integrated
compute- and data-intensive networks becoming universal compute platforms for
next-generation digital experiences. In this paper, we first describe the
requirements of Metaverse applications and associated supporting
infrastructure, including relevant use cases. We then outline a comprehensive
cloud network flow mathematical framework, designed for the end-to-end
optimization and control of such systems, and show numerical results
illustrating its promising role for the efficient operation of Metaverse-ready
networks.
---------------------------------
The Metaverse is considered to be one prototype of the next-generation
Internet, which contains people's expectations for the future world. However,
the academic discussion of the Metaverse still mainly focused on the system
technical design, and few research studied Metaverse challenges from the
perspective of consumers, i.e., Metaverse users. One difficulty is that the
analysis from the consumer's perspective requires interdisciplinary theoretical
framework and quantifiable Quality of Experience (QoE) measurements. In this
article, pioneering from consumers' point of view, we explore an interaction
between Metaverse system design and consumer behaviors. Specifically, we
rethink the QoE and propose an interdisciplinary framework that encompasses
both the Metaverse service providers (MSPs) and consumer considerations. From
the macro perspective, we introduce a joint optimization scheme that
simultaneously considers the Metaverse system design, consumers' utility, and
profitability of the MSPs. From the micro perspective, we advocate the
Willingness-to-Pay (WTP) as an easy-to-implement QoE measurement for future
Metaverse system studies. To illustrate the usability of the proposed
integrated framework, a use case of Metaverse, i.e., virtual traveling, is
presented. We show that our framework can benefit the MSPs in offering
competitive and economical service design to consumers while maximizing the
profit.
---------------------------------
Dubbed "the successor to the mobile Internet", the concept of the Metaverse
has grown in popularity. While there exist lite versions of the Metaverse
today, they are still far from realizing the full vision of an immersive,
embodied, and interoperable Metaverse. Without addressing the issues of
implementation from the communication and networking, as well as computation
perspectives, the Metaverse is difficult to succeed the Internet, especially in
terms of its accessibility to billions of users today. In this survey, we focus
on the edge-enabled Metaverse to realize its ultimate vision. We first provide
readers with a succinct tutorial of the Metaverse, an introduction to the
architecture, as well as current developments. To enable ubiquitous, seamless,
and embodied access to the Metaverse, we discuss the communication and
networking challenges and survey cutting-edge solutions and concepts that
leverage next-generation communication systems for users to immerse as and
interact with embodied avatars in the Metaverse. Moreover, given the high
computation costs required, e.g., to render 3D virtual worlds and run
data-hungry artificial intelligence-driven avatars, we discuss the computation
challenges and cloud-edge-end computation framework-driven solutions to realize
the Metaverse on resource-constrained edge devices. Next, we explore how
blockchain technologies can aid in the interoperable development of the
Metaverse, not just in terms of empowering the economic circulation of virtual
user-generated content but also to manage physical edge resources in a
decentralized, transparent, and immutable manner. Finally, we discuss the
future research directions towards realizing the true vision of the
edge-enabled Metaverse.
---------------------------------
6G-enabled edge intelligence opens up a new era of Internet of Everything and
makes it possible to interconnect people-devices-cloud anytime, anywhere. More
and more next-generation wireless network smart service applications are
changing our way of life and improving our quality of life. As the hottest new
form of next-generation Internet applications, Metaverse is striving to connect
billions of users and create a shared world where virtual and reality merge.
However, limited by resources, computing power, and sensory devices, Metaverse
is still far from realizing its full vision of immersion, materialization, and
interoperability. To this end, this survey aims to realize this vision through
the organic integration of 6G-enabled edge AI and Metaverse. Specifically, we
first introduce three new types of edge-Metaverse architectures that use
6G-enabled edge AI to solve resource and computing constraints in Metaverse.
Then we summarize technical challenges that these architectures face in
Metaverse and the existing solutions. Furthermore, we explore how the
edge-Metaverse architecture technology helps Metaverse to interact and share
digital data. Finally, we discuss future research directions to realize the
true vision of Metaverse with 6G-enabled edge AI.
---------------------------------
Avatar refers to a representative of a physical user in the virtual world
that can engage in different activities and interact with other objects in
metaverse. Simulating the avatar requires accurate human pose estimation.
Though camera-based solutions yield remarkable performance, they encounter the
privacy issue and degraded performance caused by varying illumination,
especially in smart home. In this paper, we propose a WiFi-based IoT-enabled
human pose estimation scheme for metaverse avatar simulation, namely MetaFi.
Specifically, a deep neural network is designed with customized convolutional
layers and residual blocks to map the channel state information to human pose
landmarks. It is enforced to learn the annotations from the accurate computer
vision model, thus achieving cross-modal supervision. WiFi is ubiquitous and
robust to illumination, making it a feasible solution for avatar applications
in smart home. The experiments are conducted in the real world, and the results
show that the MetaFi achieves very high performance with a PCK@50 of 95.23%.
---------------------------------
Since the popularisation of the Internet in the 1990s, the cyberspace has
kept evolving. We have created various computer-mediated virtual environments
including social networks, video conferencing, virtual 3D worlds (e.g., VR
Chat), augmented reality applications (e.g., Pokemon Go), and Non-Fungible
Token Games (e.g., Upland). Such virtual environments, albeit non-perpetual and
unconnected, have bought us various degrees of digital transformation. The term
`metaverse' has been coined to further facilitate the digital transformation in
every aspect of our physical lives. At the core of the metaverse stands the
vision of an immersive Internet as a gigantic, unified, persistent, and shared
realm. While the metaverse may seem futuristic, catalysed by emerging
technologies such as Extended Reality, 5G, and Artificial Intelligence, the
digital `big bang' of our cyberspace is not far away. This survey paper
presents the first effort to offer a comprehensive framework that examines the
latest metaverse development under the dimensions of state-of-the-art
technologies and metaverse ecosystems, and illustrates the possibility of the
digital `big bang'. First, technologies are the enablers that drive the
transition from the current Internet to the metaverse. We thus examine eight
enabling technologies rigorously - Extended Reality, User Interactivity
(Human-Computer Interaction), Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain, Computer
Vision, IoT and Robotics, Edge and Cloud computing, and Future Mobile Networks.
In terms of applications, the metaverse ecosystem allows human users to live
and play within a self-sustaining, persistent, and shared realm. Therefore, we
discuss six user-centric factors -- Avatar, Content Creation, Virtual Economy,
Social Acceptability, Security and Privacy, and Trust and Accountability.
Finally, we propose a concrete research agenda for the development of the
metaverse.
---------------------------------
Metaverse depicts a vista of constructing a virtual environment parallel to
the real world so people can communicate with others and objects through
digital entities. In the real world, communication relies on identities and
addresses that are recognized by authorities, no matter the link is established
via post, email, mobile phone, or landline. Metaverse, however, is different
from the real world, which requires a single identity belongs to the
individual. This identity can be an encrypted virtual address in the metaverse
but no one can trace or verify it. In order to achieve such addresses to hide
individuals in the metaverse, re-mapping the virtual address to the
individual's identity and a specific spectrum to support the address-based
communication for the metaverse are needed. Therefore, metaverse native or
meta-native communications based on blockchain could be a promising solution to
directly connect entities with their native encrypted addresses that gets rid
of the existing network services based on IP, cellular, HTTP, etc. This paper
proposes a vision of blockchain, encrypted address and address-based access
model for all users, devices, services, etc. to contribute to the metaverse.
Furthermore, the allocation architecture of a designated spectrum for the
metaverse is proposed to remove the barrier to access to the
metaverse/blockchain in response to the initiatives of metaverse and
decentralized Internet.
---------------------------------
Existing metaverse systems lack rich relation types between entities and
events. The challenge is that there is no portable framework to introduce rich
concepts, relations, events into the metaverse. This paper introduces a new
metaverse framework, MetaOnce. This framework proposes to build multi-scene
graphs. This framework not only describes rich relations in a single scene but
also combines multiple scene graphs into a complete graph for more
comprehensive analysis and inference. Prior social network systems mainly
describe friend relations. They ignore the effect of entity-relation-event
games on the metaverse system and existing rule constraints. We propose a rule
controller and impose constraints on the relations that allow the framework to
behave in a compliant manner. We build a metaverse system to test the features
of the framework, and experimental results show that our framework can build a
multi-scene metaverse with memory and rule constraints.
---------------------------------
In recent years, the Internet of Things (IoT) is studied in the context of
the Metaverse to provide users immersive cyber-virtual experiences in mixed
reality environments. This survey introduces six typical IoT applications in
the Metaverse, including collaborative healthcare, education, smart city,
entertainment, real estate, and socialization. In the IoT-inspired Metaverse,
we also comprehensively survey four pillar technologies that enable augmented
reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), namely, responsible artificial
intelligence (AI), high-speed data communications, cost-effective mobile edge
computing (MEC), and digital twins. According to the physical-world demands, we
outline the current industrial efforts and seven key requirements for building
the IoT-inspired Metaverse: immersion, variety, economy, civility,
interactivity, authenticity, and independence. In addition, this survey
describes the open issues in the IoT-inspired Metaverse, which need to be
addressed to eventually achieve the convergence of physical and cyber worlds.
---------------------------------
Since Facebook officially changed its name to Metaverse in Oct. 2021, the
metaverse has become a new norm of social networks and three-dimensional (3D)
virtual worlds. The metaverse aims to bring 3D immersive and personalized
experiences to users by leveraging many pertinent technologies. Despite great
attention and benefits, a natural question in the metaverse is how to secure
its users' digital content and data. In this regard, blockchain is a promising
solution owing to its distinct features of decentralization, immutability, and
transparency. To better understand the role of blockchain in the metaverse, we
aim to provide an extensive survey on the applications of blockchain for the
metaverse. We first present a preliminary to blockchain and the metaverse and
highlight the motivations behind the use of blockchain for the metaverse. Next,
we extensively discuss blockchain-based methods for the metaverse from
technical perspectives, such as data acquisition, data storage, data sharing,
data interoperability, and data privacy preservation. For each perspective, we
first discuss the technical challenges of the metaverse and then highlight how
blockchain can help. Moreover, we investigate the impact of blockchain on
key-enabling technologies in the metaverse, including Internet-of-Things,
digital twins, multi-sensory and immersive applications, artificial
intelligence, and big data. We also present some major projects to showcase the
role of blockchain in metaverse applications and services. Finally, we present
some promising directions to drive further research innovations and
developments towards the use of blockchain in the metaverse in the future.
---------------------------------
The metaverse was first introduced in 1992. Many people saw Metaverse as a
new word but the concept of Metaverse is not a new term. However, Zuckerberg's
press release drew all the attention to the Metaverse. This study presents a
bibliometric evaluation of metaverse technology, which has been discussed in
the literature since the nineties. A field study is carried out especially for
the metaverse, which is a new and trendy subject. In this way, descriptive
information is presented on journals, institutions, prominent researchers, and
countries in the field, as well as extra evaluation on the prominent topics in
the field and researchers with heavy citations. In our study, which was carried
out by extracting the data of all documents between the years 1990-2021 from
the Web of Science database, it was seen that there were few studies in the
literature in the historical process for the metaverse, whose popularity has
reached its peak in recent months. In addition, it is seen that the subject is
handled intensively with virtual reality and augmented reality technologies,
and the education sector and digital marketing fields show interest in the
field. Metaverse will probably have entered many areas of our lives in the next
15-20 years, shape our lives by taking advantage of the opportunities of
developing technology.
---------------------------------
Dubbed "the successor to the mobile Internet", the concept of the Metaverse
has recently exploded in popularity. While there exists lite versions of the
Metaverse today, we are still far from realizing the vision of a seamless,
shardless, and interoperable Metaverse given the stringent sensing,
communication, and computation requirements. Moreover, the birth of the
Metaverse comes amid growing privacy concerns among users. In this article, we
begin by providing a preliminary definition of the Metaverse. We discuss the
architecture of the Metaverse and mainly focus on motivating the convergence of
edge intelligence and the infrastructure layer of the Metaverse. We present
major edge-based technological developments and their integration to support
the Metaverse engine. Then, we present our research attempts through a case
study of virtual city development in the Metaverse. Finally, we discuss the
open research issues.
---------------------------------
Metaverse as the latest buzzword has attracted great attention from both
industry and academia. Metaverse seamlessly integrates the real world with the
virtual world and allows avatars to carry out rich activities including
creation, display, entertainment, social networking, and trading. Thus, it is
promising to build an exciting digital world and to transform a better physical
world through the exploration of the metaverse. In this survey, we dive into
the metaverse by discussing how Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence (AI)
fuse with it through investigating the state-of-the-art studies across the
metaverse components, digital currencies, AI applications in the virtual world,
and blockchain-empowered technologies. Further exploitation and
interdisciplinary research on the fusion of AI and Blockchain towards metaverse
will definitely require collaboration from both academia and industries. We
wish that our survey can help researchers, engineers, and educators build an
open, fair, and rational future metaverse.
---------------------------------
User Interaction for NFTs (Non-fungible Tokens) is gaining increasing
attention. Although NFTs have been traditionally single-use and monolithic,
recent applications aim to connect multimodal interaction with human behaviour.
This paper reviews the related technological approaches and business practices
in NFT art. We highlight that multimodal interaction is a currently
under-studied issue in mainstream NFT art, and conjecture that multimodal
interaction is a crucial enabler for decentralization in the NFT community. We
propose a framework that combines a bottom-up approach with AI multimodal
process. Through this framework, we put forward integrating human behaviour
data into generative NFT units, as "multimodal interactive NFT". Our work
displays the possibilities of NFTs in the art world, beyond the traditional 2D
and 3D static content.
---------------------------------
Metaverse has stretched the real world into unlimited space. There will be
more live concerts in Metaverse. The task of singer identification is to
identify the song belongs to which singer. However, there has been a tough
problem in singer identification, which is the different live effects. The
studio version is different from the live version, the data distribution of the
training set and the test set are different, and the performance of the
classifier decreases. This paper proposes the use of the domain adaptation
method to solve the live effect in singer identification. Three methods of
domain adaptation combined with Convolutional Recurrent Neural Network (CRNN)
are designed, which are Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD), gradient reversal
(Revgrad), and Contrastive Adaptation Network (CAN). MMD is a distance-based
method, which adds domain loss. Revgrad is based on the idea that learned
features can represent different domain samples. CAN is based on class
adaptation, it takes into account the correspondence between the categories of
the source domain and target domain. Experimental results on the public dataset
of Artist20 show that CRNN-MMD leads to an improvement over the baseline CRNN
by 0.14. The CRNN-RevGrad outperforms the baseline by 0.21. The CRNN-CAN
achieved state of the art with the F1 measure value of 0.83 on album split.
---------------------------------
In this paper, we address the networking and communications problems of
creating a digital copy in the Metaverse digital twin. Specifically, a virtual
service provider (VSP) which is responsible for creating and rendering the
Metaverse, is required to use the data collected by IoT devices to create the
virtual copy of the physical world. However, due to the huge volume of the
collected data by IoT devices (e.g., images and videos) and the limited
bandwidth, the VSP might become unable to retrieve all the required data from
the physical world. Furthermore, the Metaverse needs fast replication (e.g.,
rendering) of the digital copy adding more restrictions on the data
transmission delay. To solve the aforementioned challenges, we propose to equip
the IoT devices with semantic information extraction algorithms to minimize the
size of the transmitted data over the wireless channels. Since many IoT devices
will be interested to sell their semantic information to the VSP, we propose a
truthful reverse auction mechanism that helps the VSP select only IoT devices
that can improve the quality of its virtual copy of objects through the
semantic information. We conduct extensive simulations on a dataset that
contains synchronized camera and radar images, and show that our novel design
enables a fast replication of the digital copy with high accuracy.
---------------------------------
Emerging with the support of computing and communications technologies,
Metaverse is expected to bring users unprecedented service experiences.
However, the increase in the number of Metaverse users places a heavy demand on
network resources, especially for Metaverse services that are based on
graphical extended reality and require rendering a plethora of virtual objects.
To make efficient use of network resources and improve the
Quality-of-Experience (QoE), we design an attention-aware network resource
allocation scheme to achieve customized Metaverse services. The aim is to
allocate more network resources to virtual objects in which users are more
interested. We first discuss several key techniques related to Metaverse
services, including QoE analysis, eye-tracking, and remote rendering. We then
review existing datasets and propose the user-object-attention level (UOAL)
dataset that contains the ground truth attention of 30 users to 96 objects in
1,000 images. A tutorial on how to use UOAL is presented. With the help of
UOAL, we propose an attention-aware network resource allocation algorithm that
has two steps, i.e., attention prediction and QoE maximization. Specially, we
provide an overview of the designs of two types of attention prediction
methods, i.e., interest-aware and time-aware prediction. By using the predicted
user-object-attention values, network resources such as the rendering capacity
of edge devices can be allocated optimally to maximize the QoE. Finally, we
propose promising research directions related to Metaverse services.
---------------------------------
Metaverse is a new type of Internet application and social form that
integrates a variety of new technologies. It has the characteristics of
multi-technology, sociality, and hyper spatiotemporality. This paper introduces
the development status of Metaverse, from the five perspectives of network
infrastructure, management technology, basic common technology, virtual reality
object connection, and virtual reality convergence, it introduces the technical
framework of Metaverse. This paper also introduces the nature of Metaverse's
social and hyper spatiotemporality, and discusses the first application areas
of Metaverse and some of the problems and challenges it may face.
---------------------------------
Achieving the expansion of domestic demand and the economic internal
circulation requires balanced and coordinated support from multiple industries
(domains) such as consumption, education, entertainment, engineering
infrastructure, etc., which is indispensable for maintaining economic
development. Metaverse applications may help with this task and can make many
industries more interesting, more efficient, and provide a better user
experience. The first challenge is that metaverse application development
inevitably requires the support of various artificial intelligence (AI)
technologies such as natural language processing (NLP), knowledge graph (KG),
computer vision (CV), and machine learning (ML), etc. However, existing
metaverse application development lacks a lightweight AI technology framework.
This paper proposes a flexible metaverse AI technology framework metaAID that
aims to support language and semantic technologies in the development of
digital twins and virtual humans. The second challenge is that the development
process of metaverse applications involves both technical development tasks and
manual editing work, and often becomes a heavyweight multi-team collaboration
project, not to mention the development of metaverse applications in multiple
industries. Our framework summarizes common AI technologies and application
development templates with common functional modules and interfaces. Based on
this framework, we have designed 5 applications for 3 industries around the
expansion of domestic demand and economic internal circulation. Experimental
results show that our framework can support AI technologies when developing
metaverse applications in different industries.
---------------------------------
Digital Twins (DTs) are a conventional and well-known concept, proposed in
70s, that are popular in a broad spectrum of sciences, industry innovations,
and consortium alliances. However, in the last few years, the growth of digital
assets and online communications has attracted attention to DTs as highly
accurate twins of physical objects. Metaverse, as a digital world, is a concept
proposed in 1992 and has also become a popular paradigm and hot topic in public
where DTs can play critical roles. This study first presents definitions,
applications, and general challenges of DT and Metaverse. It then offers a
three-layer architecture linking the physical world to the Metaverse through a
user interface. Further, it investigates the security and privacy challenges of
using DTs in Metaverse. Finally, a conclusion, including possible solutions for
mentioned challenges and future works, will be provided.
---------------------------------
Driven by the recent improvements in device and networks capabilities,
Extended Reality (XR) is becoming more pervasive; industry and academia alike
envision ambitious projects such as the metaverse. However, XR is still limited
by the current architecture of mobile systems. This paper makes the case for an
XR-specific operating system (XROS). Such an XROS integrates hardware-support,
computer vision algorithms, and XR-specific networking as the primitives
supporting XR technology. These primitives represent the physical-digital world
as a single shared resource among applications. Such an XROS allows for the
development of coherent and system-wide interaction and display methods,
systematic privacy preservation on sensor data, and performance improvement
while simplifying application development.
---------------------------------
Metaverse has recently attracted paramount attention due to its potential for
future Internet. However, to fully realize such potential, Metaverse
applications have to overcome various challenges such as massive resource
demands, interoperability among applications, and security and privacy
concerns. In this paper, we propose MetaChain, a novel blockchain-based
framework to address emerging challenges for the development of Metaverse
applications. In particular, by utilizing the smart contract mechanism,
MetaChain can effectively manage and automate complex interactions among the
Metaverse Service Provider (MSP) and the Metaverse users (MUs). In addition, to
allow the MSP to efficiently allocate its resources for Metaverse applications
and MUs' demands, we design a novel sharding scheme to improve the underlying
blockchain's scalability. Moreover, to leverage MUs' resources as well as to
attract more MUs to support Metaverse operations, we develop an incentive
mechanism using the Stackelberg game theory that rewards MUs' contributions to
the Metaverse. Through numerical experiments, we clearly show the impacts of
the MUs' behaviors and how the incentive mechanism can attract more MUs and
resources to the Metaverse.
---------------------------------
Metaverse as the next-generation Internet provides users with
physical-virtual world interactions. To improve the quality of immersive
experience, users access to Metaverse service providers (MSPs) and purchase
bandwidth resource to reduce the communication latency of the Metaverse
services. The MSPs decide selling price of the bandwidth resource to maximize
the revenue. This leads to a joint user association and resource pricing
problem between all users and MSPs. To tackle the problem, we formulate a
Stackelberg game where the MSPs are game leaders and users are game followers.
We resolve the Stackelberg equilibrium via the distributed and centralized
approaches, according to different privacy requirements. In the distributed
approach, the MSPs compete against each other to maximize the individual
revenue, and a user selects an MSP in a probabilistic manner. The Stackelberg
equilibrium is achieved in a privacy-friendly way. In the centralized approach,
all MSPs and users accept the unified management and their strategies are
instructed. The centralized approach acquires the superior decision-making
performance but sacrifices the privacy of the game players. Finally, we provide
numerical results to demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our
schemes.
---------------------------------
Interactive audio spatialization technology previously developed for video
game authoring and rendering has evolved into an essential component of
platforms enabling shared immersive virtual experiences for future co-presence,
remote collaboration and entertainment applications. New wearable virtual and
augmented reality displays employ real-time binaural audio computing engines
rendering multiple digital objects and supporting the free navigation of
networked participants or their avatars through a juxtaposition of
environments, real and virtual, often referred to as the Metaverse. These
applications require a parametric audio scene programming interface to
facilitate the creation and deployment of shared, dynamic and realistic virtual
3D worlds on mobile computing platforms and remote servers.
  We propose a practical approach for designing parametric 6-degree-of-freedom
object-based interactive audio engines to deliver the perceptually relevant
binaural cues necessary for audio/visual and virtual/real congruence in
Metaverse experiences. We address the effects of room reverberation, acoustic
reflectors, and obstacles in both the virtual and real environments, and
discuss how such effects may be driven by combinations of pre-computed and
real-time acoustic propagation solvers. We envision an open scene description
model distilled to facilitate the development of interoperable applications
distributed across multiple platforms, where each audio object represents, to
the user, a natural sound source having controllable distance, size,
orientation, and acoustic radiation properties.
---------------------------------
Metaverse has evolved as one of the popular research agendas that let the
users learn, socialize, and collaborate in a networked 3D immersive virtual
world. Due to the rich multimedia streaming capability and immersive user
experience with high-speed communication, the metaverse is an ideal model for
education, training, and skill development tasks. To facilitate research in
this area, we provide a comprehensive review of the various educational use
cases and explore how enabling technologies such as Extended reality (XR) and
Internet of Everything (IoE) will play a major role in educational services in
future metaverses. Secondly, we provide an overview of metaverse-based
educational applications focusing on education, training, and skill development
and analyze the technologies they are built upon. We identify common research
problems and future research directions in the domain. The paper also
identifies core ethical considerations of metaverse for education and potential
pitfalls. We believe this survey can fully demonstrate the versatility of
metaverse-driven education, which could serve as a potential guideline for the
researchers.
---------------------------------
The metaverse, enormous virtual-physical cyberspace, has brought
unprecedented opportunities for artists to blend every corner of our physical
surroundings with digital creativity. This article conducts a comprehensive
survey on computational arts, in which seven critical topics are relevant to
the metaverse, describing novel artworks in blended virtual-physical realities.
The topics first cover the building elements for the metaverse, e.g., virtual
scenes and characters, auditory, textual elements. Next, several remarkable
types of novel creations in the expanded horizons of metaverse cyberspace have
been reflected, such as immersive arts, robotic arts, and other user-centric
approaches fuelling contemporary creative outputs. Finally, we propose several
research agendas: democratising computational arts, digital privacy, and safety
for metaverse artists, ownership recognition for digital artworks,
technological challenges, and so on. The survey also serves as introductory
material for artists and metaverse technologists to begin creations in the
realm of surrealistic cyberspace.
---------------------------------
The metaverse has seen growing corporate and popular interest over the past
few years. While visions vary, the metaverse is generally seen as an extension
of the internet that may be developed through advances in a number of digital
technologies, such as augmented and virtual reality, as well as new technical
infrastructure and standards. The metaverse constitutes an emerging social
imaginary, a way of both understanding and directing our shared existence. This
paper examines this emerging social imaginary through the phenomenological
concept of dwelling, or being at home in the world, as developed by Martin
Heidegger. To examine in depth one influential articulation of this social
imaginary, this paper focuses on the metaverse as envisioned by Mark
Zuckerberg, CEO of Meta (formerly Facebook). The paper presents a thematic
analysis of Zuckerberg's public statements regarding the metaverse to provide a
close reading of this particular vision. Then, through the lens of Heidegger's
philosophy of dwelling, this paper identifies numerous threats to dwelling
posed by the metaverse social imaginary. This paper explains these threats and
their prognoses, and it closes with some considerations for how the metaverse
could be designed to better facilitate human dwelling.
---------------------------------
Recent initiatives related to the Metaverse focus on better visualisation,
like augmented or virtual reality, but also persistent digital objects. To
guarantee real ownership of these digital objects, open systems based on public
blockchains and Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) are emerging together with a nascent
decentralized and open creator economy. To manage this emerging economy in a
more organised way, and fight the so common NFT plagiarism, we propose
CopyrightLY, a decentralized application for authorship and copyright
management. It provides means to claim content authorship, including supporting
evidence. Content and metadata are stored in decentralized storage and
registered on the blockchain. A token is used to curate these claims, and
potential complaints, by staking it on them. Staking is incentivized by the
fact that the token is minted using a bonding curve. The tokenomics include the
resolution of complaints and enabling the monetization of curated claims.
Monetization is achieved through licensing NFTs with metadata enhanced by
semantic technologies. Semantic data makes explicit the reuse conditions
transferred with the token while keeping the connection to the underlying
copyright claims to improve the trustability of the NFTs. Moreover, the
semantic metadata is flexible enough to enable licensing not just in the real
world. Licenses can refer to reuses in specific locations in a metaverse, thus
facilitating the emergence of creative economies in them.
---------------------------------
Thirty study participants playtested an innocent-looking "escape room" game
in virtual reality (VR). Behind the scenes, an adversarial program had
accurately inferred over 25 personal data attributes, from anthropometrics like
height and wingspan to demographics like age and gender, within just a few
minutes of gameplay. As notoriously data-hungry companies become increasingly
involved in VR development, this experimental scenario may soon represent a
typical VR user experience. While virtual telepresence applications (and the
so-called "metaverse") have recently received increased attention and
investment from major tech firms, these environments remain relatively
under-studied from a security and privacy standpoint. In this work, we
illustrate how VR attackers can covertly ascertain dozens of personal data
attributes from seemingly-anonymous users of popular metaverse applications
like VRChat. These attackers can be as simple as other VR users without special
privilege, and the potential scale and scope of this data collection far exceed
what is feasible within traditional mobile and web applications. We aim to shed
light on the unique privacy risks of the metaverse, and provide the first
holistic framework for understanding intrusive data harvesting attacks in these
emerging VR ecosystems.
---------------------------------
Due to the rising complexity of the metaverse's business logic and the
low-latency nature of the metaverse, developers typically encounter the
challenge of effectively reading, writing, and retrieving historical on-chain
data in order to facilitate their functional implementations at scale. While it
is true that accessing blockchain states is simple, more advanced real-world
operations such as search, aggregation, and conditional filtering are not
available when interacting directly with blockchain networks, particularly when
dealing with requirements for on-chain event reflection. We offer Matrix
Syncer, the ultimate middleware that bridges the data access gap between
blockchains and end-user applications. Matrix Syncer is designed to facilitate
the consolidation of on-chain information into a distributed data warehouse
while also enabling customized on-chain state transformation for a scalable
storage, access, and retrieval. It offers a unified layer for both on- and
off-chain state, as well as a fast and flexible atomic query. Matrix Syncer is
easily incorporated into any infrastructure to aggregate data from various
blockchains concurrently, such as Ethereum and Flow. The system has been
deployed to support several metaverse projects with a total value of more than
$15 million USD.
---------------------------------
The physical-virtual world synchronization to develop the Metaverse will
require a massive transmission and exchange of data. In this paper, we
introduce semantic communication for the development of virtual transportation
networks in the Metaverse. Leveraging the perception capabilities of edge
devices, virtual service providers (VSPs) can subscribe to their preferred edge
devices to receive the semantic data of interest. However, the demands of the
VSPs are highly dependent on the users that they are serving. To address the
resource allocation problem amid stochastic user demand, we propose a
stochastic semantic transmission scheme (SSTS) based on two-stage stochastic
integer programming. Using real data captured by edge devices we deploy in
Singapore, the simulation results show that SSTS can minimize the transmission
cost of the VSPs while accounting for the users' demand uncertainties.
---------------------------------
The emerging industrial metaverses realize the mapping and expanding
operations of physical industry into virtual space for significantly upgrading
intelligent manufacturing. The industrial metaverses obtain data from various
production and operation lines by Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), and
thus conduct effective data analysis and decision-making, thereby enhancing the
production efficiency of the physical space, reducing operating costs, and
maximizing commercial value. However, there still exist bottlenecks when
integrating metaverses into IIoT, such as the privacy leakage of sensitive data
with commercial secrets, IIoT sensing data freshness, and incentives for
sharing these data. In this paper, we design a user-defined privacy-preserving
framework with decentralized federated learning for the industrial metaverses.
To further improve privacy protection of industrial metaverse, a cross-chain
empowered federated learning framework is further utilized to perform
decentralized, secure, and privacy-preserving data training on both physical
and virtual spaces through a hierarchical blockchain architecture with a main
chain and multiple subchains. Moreover, we introduce the age of information as
the data freshness metric and thus design an age-based contract model to
motivate data sensing among IIoT nodes. Numerical results indicate the
efficiency of the proposed framework and incentive mechanism in the industrial
metaverses.
---------------------------------
While the physical lives of many of us are in democracies (one person, one
vote - e.g., the EU and the US), our digital lives are mostly in autocracies
(one person, all votes - e.g., Facebook). Cryptocurrencies promise liberation
but stop short, at plutocracy (one coin, one vote). What would it take for us
to live our digital lives in a digital democracy? This paper offers a vision, a
theoretical framework, and an architecture for a grassroots network of
autonomous, people-owned, people-operated, and people-governed digital
communities, namely a grassroots democratic metaverse. It also charts a roadmap
towards realizing it, and identifies unexplored territory for further research.
---------------------------------
The metaverse promises a host of bright opportunities for business,
economics, and society. Though, a number of critical aspects are still to be
considered and the analysis of their impact is almost non-existent. In this
paper, we provide several contributions. We start by analysing the foundations
of the metaverse, later we focus on the novel privacy and security issues
introduced by this new paradigm, and finally we broaden the scope of the
contribution highlighting some of the far-reaching yet logical implications of
the metaverse on a number of domains, not all of them in tech. Throughout the
paper, we also discuss possible research directions. We believe that the
provided holistic view on the foundations, technology, and issues related to
the metaverse-with a focus on security and privacy-, other than being an
interesting contribution on its own, could also pave the way for a few
multidisciplinary research avenues.
---------------------------------
Spurred by the severe restrictions on mobility due to the COVID-19 pandemic,
there is currently intense interest in developing the Metaverse, to offer
virtual services/business online. A key enabler of such virtual service is the
digital twin, i.e., a digital replication of real-world entities in the
Metaverse, e.g., city twin, avatars, etc. The real-world data collected by IoT
devices and sensors are key for synchronizing the two worlds. In this paper, we
consider the scenario in which a group of IoT devices are employed by the
Metaverse platform to collect such data on behalf of virtual service providers
(VSPs). Device owners, who are self-interested, dynamically select a VSP to
maximize rewards. We adopt hybrid evolutionary dynamics, in which heterogeneous
device owner populations can employ different revision protocols to update
their strategies. Extensive simulations demonstrate that a hybrid protocol can
lead to evolutionary stable states.
---------------------------------
The term "metaverse", a three-dimensional virtual universe similar to the
real realm, has always been full of imagination since it was put forward in the
1990s. Recently, it is possible to realize the metaverse with the continuous
emergence and progress of various technologies, and thus it has attracted
extensive attention again. It may bring a lot of benefits to human society such
as reducing discrimination, eliminating individual differences, and
socializing. However, everything has security and privacy concerns, which is no
exception for the metaverse. In this article, we firstly analyze the concept of
the metaverse and propose that it is a super virtual-reality (VR) ecosystem
compared with other VR technologies. Then, we carefully analyze and elaborate
on possible security and privacy concerns from four perspectives: user
information, communication, scenario, and goods, and immediately, the potential
solutions are correspondingly put forward. Meanwhile, we propose the need to
take advantage of the new buckets effect to comprehensively address security
and privacy concerns from a philosophical perspective, which hopefully will
bring some progress to the metaverse community.
---------------------------------
We created anatomical 3D objects regarding eye mechanism in Second life as learning materials. We conducted several substantiative experiments to prove how much understanding of participants of the experiments could improve their knowledge by lecturing with these objects. The 3D objects which we created provide an artificial experience which we can never have in the actual world. For instance, we can see a huge eye ball and we can enter inside of it. Enjoyment and excitement through such an artificial experience becomes a trigger of arousing our motivation for learning and bring us deep understanding.
---------------------------------
The advent of metaverses provide exciting opportunities for augmented reality research. We have created a number of interactions between the metaverse Second Life and the real world. Camera phone image matching creates portals and triggers the metaverse to mimic real locations. Image processing, tracking, projection and 3D video sprites create varied possibilities for people and avatars to have presence in each others worlds.
---------------------------------
With today's increased interest in advanced digital networking and social online communities, many higher educational institutes have been exploring online three-dimensional virtual environments as a new medium for distance learning. These technologies provide multiple features for online interaction and collaboration, a visual cyberspace for text and voice communication, the ability to manipulate multimedia in real time with a group of individuals, and the opportunity to link users to Web sites.
---------------------------------
No abstract available.
---------------------------------
Recent advances in technology are rapidly changing the way we interact with the physical world around us. As a result, our digital footprint and digital breadcrumbs are tracked and can reveal not just our identity but also our location, age, shopping preferences, friends, favorite movies, and much more. In the worst case, such tracking may lead to hostile entities coming to know your highly sensitive information such as credit card numbers, social security identity numbers, mother\'s maiden name, medical history, bank account information, and so on. Social engineering [1] is one of several related ways that this data becomes jeopardized. Furthermore, Internet-connected cameras allow consumers, companies, and government agencies to record animate and inanimate objects in a specific geographic area. Such recordings may be stored in cloud-based storage farms, viewed by humans, or analyzed by machines for various purposes. The information can be gathered and interpreted in multiple ways, such as by surveillance cameras, and can include activity and location inference as well as aggregation and pattern detection.
---------------------------------
This column provides concise summaries of selected papers that have recently been published in the field of networking. Each summary describes the paper’s main idea, methodology, and technical contributions. The purpose of the column is to bring the state of the art of networking research to readers of IEEE Network. Authors are also welcome to recommend their recently published work to the column, and papers with novel ideas, solid work, and significant contributions to the field are especially appreciated. Authors wishing to have their papers presented in the column should contact the Editor. 
---------------------------------
Multisensory technologies have paved the way for the collective transfer and sharing of the senses on the Internet. The Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) community considers digital olfactory stimulation to be a helpful step in developing technology related to digital multisensory communication. This article provides a brief overview of digital scent technology through the recent electrical interfaces and past commercial efforts using chemical odors. We present the practical application of technology in the field of digital communication, marketing, and well being. We also discuss the commercial use of the Internet of Senses (IoS) and its cornerstone IMT-2030 (6G), contributing to the intimate nature of multisensory experiences from reality. Finally, we observe a symbiotic relationship between the future technologies of the IoS and the Metaverse, with 6G being the connecting link and the primary activator of the multisensory experiences.
---------------------------------
Spurred by the severe restrictions on mobility due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there is currently intense interest in developing the Metaverse, to offer virtual services/business online. A key enabler of such virtual service is the digital twin, i.e., a digital replication of real-world entities in the Metaverse, e.g., city twin, avatars, etc. The real-world data collected by IoT devices and sensors are key for synchronizing the two worlds. In this paper, we consider the scenario in which a group of IoT devices are employed by the Metaverse platform to collect such data on behalf of virtual service providers (VSPs). Device owners, who are self-interested, dynamically select a VSP to maximize rewards. We adopt hybrid evolutionary dynamics, in which heterogeneous device owner populations can employ different revision protocols to update their strategies. Extensive simulations demonstrate that a hybrid protocol can lead to evolutionary stable states.
---------------------------------
The metaverse promises large-scale and persistent environments for users to share experiences at the intersection between physical and digital. Augmented reality (AR) is one of the primary technologies that supports blending digital content with physical environments. However, most AR applications are currently single-user and present significant constraints in terms of time and location. Scaling up the technology to large-sized environments and massively multi-user experiences thus represents one of the primary challenges to achieving such a vision. Due to these constraints, current proposals for the metaverse primarily consist of virtual worlds with little duality between physical and digital. This paper studies the feasibility of a large-scale and persistent AR experience shared among all visitors on our university campus. We define an integrated framework to enable the first AR campus metaverse by considering the nature of the various environments and the available sensing platforms.
---------------------------------
The current paper discusses how individuals will process social media content within the metaverse world. Also, the current paper will propose an exploratory study that is designed to provide preliminary evidence regarding how individuals cognitively and emotionally process social media posts embedded in a metaverse platform where they experience the simulation of becoming their desired or positive “future self”. From data obtained from the gaze tracking and social media engagement metrics that measure users\' simulated attentional and engagement behaviors, the author will examine to what extent the different temporal distances of virtual or simulated self (present vs near- vs far-future self) and the actual self (lowly vs highly conscientious self) interactively influences the durations of attention (duration of viewing the posts) to and the engagement (i.e., clicking “like” button for the posts) in different social media posts (e.g., news feeds, positive vs negative dog pictures in native adverts, a health marketing post) seen in the virtual computer screen within the virtual room. In general, it is expected that the father the temporal distance, the longer the duration of the attention to the social media posts. This effect can be moderated by the actual self-views. That is, for participants with negative self-views, the farther the simulated temporal distance, the shorter the duration of attention to the social media posts relevant for the positive self within the metaverse environment. The opposite results are expected to be observed from individuals with positive self-views: the farther the simulated temporal distance, the longer the duration of attention to the social media posts seen within the non-real or metaverse world. The analysis and the plan for the presentation at 2022 IEEE VR workshop is provided in this paper.
---------------------------------
Moving from a set of independent virtual worlds to an integrated network of 3D virtual worlds or Metaverse rests on progress in four areas: immersive realism, ubiquity of access and identity, interoperability, and scalability. For each area, the current status and needed developments in order to achieve a functional Metaverse are described. Factors that support the formation of a viable Metaverse, such as institutional and popular interest and ongoing improvements in hardware performance, and factors that constrain the achievement of this goal, including limits in computational methods and unrealized collaboration among virtual world stakeholders and developers, are also considered.
---------------------------------
Science-fiction notions of "the metaverse" are slowly becoming a reality as products such as Fortnite, Minecraft, and Roblox bring immersive social experiences to hundreds of millions of people and blur the boundaries between games and social networks. This talk will explore the foundational technologies, economies, and freedoms required to build this future medium as a force for good.
---------------------------------
For a virtual problem-based learning (PBL) class in Metaverse, an eye blinking system for avatars was introduced. It correlated their eye blinking behavior with an emotional response to various problems that they were asked to discuss on behalf of their users. Three Japanese college students joined the project where they discussed a simple and difficult problem, respectively. Teachers proposed online (mathematical problems) for them. Each session was 10minutes in length. During the classes, the number of eye blinks was recorded for each student by using special software. After completing the PBL classes, the students answered questionnaires. Then the results were analyzed. All of the results suggested that the difficult question would make students’ feelings unstable and increase the number of eye blinks. Using this system, teachers could analyze students’ responses well to achieve a better outcome of virtual PBL.
---------------------------------
Smart healthcare has transitioned towards health-care 5.0, which allows ambient tracking of patients, emotive telemedicine, telesurgery, wellness monitoring, virtual clinics, and personalized care. Thus, the metaverse is a potential tool to leverage digital connectivity via improved healthcare experience in virtual environments. However, despite its potential benefits, patient’s sensitive information is captured, and digital avatars are created that interact with healthcare stakeholders for connected virtual care. As metaverse components are decentralized, blockchain (BC) is a potential solution to induce transparency and immutability in stored transactions on metaverse. For clinical decision support in BC-assisted metaverse enabled, Healthcare 5.0, accurate and interpretable diagnosis is critical. Thus, explainable AI (xAI) forms another critical component that provides trust in the healthcare informatics front. A dual solution of trusted informatics is possible via the interplay of BC and xAI in metaverse-enabled Healthcare 5.0. The article investigates the interplay through a proposed telesurgical scheme between patients, virtual hospitals, and doctors. Next, we discuss the potential challenges and present an experimental use-case of the benefits of our proposed architecture over traditional telesurgery systems.
---------------------------------
Condition, Trend, Understanding, Prediction (CTUP) are the four key technologies in situation awareness. Except for its wide application in the military, autonomous driving, and behavior analysis, CTUP is also considered as one of the social skills in human society. With the increased integration of 5G, blockchain, artificial intelligence, and other smart technologies, Metaverse is expected to change the way we communicated with each other. While concern about how to deal with the relationship in the Metaverse world has become a hot topic. As the communication skills whether in the actual or Metaverse world share some common factors, it is considered that the CTUP model could help people to have a better relationship with some advice based on the condition, trend, understanding, and prediction.
---------------------------------
Dubbed as the next-generation Internet, the meta-verse is a virtual world that allows users to interact with each other or objects in real-time using their avatars. The metaverse is envisioned to support novel ecosystems of service provision in an immersive environment brought about by an intersection of the virtual and physical worlds. The native AI systems in metaverse will personalized user experience over time and shape the experience in a scalable, seamless, and synchronous way. However, the metaverse is characterized by diverse resource types amid a highly dynamic demand environment. In this paper, we propose the case study of virtual education in the metaverse and address the unified resource allocation problem amid stochastic user demand. We propose a stochastic optimal resource allocation scheme (SORAS) based on stochastic integer programming with the objective of minimizing the cost of the virtual service provider. The simulation results show that SORAS can minimize the cost of the virtual service provider while accounting for the users’ demands uncertainty.
---------------------------------
This research aims at implementing an e-Learning platform where students from overseas can learn Japanese language and culture in 3D met averse. First, we introduce the results of preliminary survey to international students regarding their study interests related to Japanese language and culture. Second, we outline the design and implementation of our learning platform in Second Life (SL) based on the concept of situated learning that emphasizes embodied interaction with the external objects/environment in the process of learning. The platform includes traditional Japanese architecture, such as Shinto shrine, Noh stage, or Buddism pagoda. The learners can also explore those architectures in the virtual space with their avatar. Third, we elucidate the result of the analysis of our learning experiment in SL among international and Japanese student based on the interaction between learners and with objects in the virtual space. Finally, we discuss advantages and limitations of learning process in our met averse platform in terms of situated leaning of Japanese language and culture.
---------------------------------
This paper presents how to infer viewed exhibits in a metaverse museum from a visitor\'s movement log. This task consists of movement-state detection and viewed-exhibit inference. For the former task, we focus on visitor\'s fast and slow movement and discuss three differences between our previous methods and new methods: an additional parameter, speed normalization, and key-input accumulation. For the latter task, our new method focuses on the distance and angle between the visitor and each involving exhibit. According to a conducted experiment, the proposed methods could improve the performance (F-measure) by 10.3% and 4.6% for movement state detection and viewed-exhibit inference, respectively.
---------------------------------
Intermedia art is an art form that spans many fields such as digital art, biological art, interactive machinery, artificial intelligence, etc. Because of its multi-domain collaborative creation has become an inevitable choice for intermedia art creators to spread in public spaces with more complicated social relations. The public spaces can be recognized as the ones in the physical world involving the flesh of human bodies and those in the virtual world called “metaverse” in recent years. In this paper, based on the traditional intervention methods of intermedia art in physical public spaces, “interference” and “consultation,” we conclude the challenges when intermedia reveals its tendency to migrate from the physical world to the virtual world as the changing of social background. After that, we discuss the past, present and the future of metaverse serving as a new form of public space for the expression of intermedia art by analyzing the data collected from the two mainstream metaverse platforms called “CryptoVoxels” and “Decentraland.”
---------------------------------
Abstract— Online gambling produces a substantial turnover.\xa0\xa0Unfortunately for potential virtual world gamblers and gambling organizations alike, US law had forced the closure of gambling in the Second Life virtual world.\xa0\xa0However, an Open Grid Protocol could lead to the provision of off-shore gambling in this virtual world. Aside from legal issues, online gambling generally gives rise to ethical issues relating to prevention of harm.\xa0\xa0We considered the combined legal and ethical issues, and have proposed and begun to construct and evaluate a system with computational oversight: an ethical advisor.\xa0\xa0The system is grounded in recent research into Machine Ethics, which may offer insights into other legal and ethical matters, and provides a framework for responsible gambling in our EthiCasino (ethical virtual casino) in Second Life.
---------------------------------
With the relatively recent awareness of the fragility of the natural world environment (Rio Conference \\"Earth Summit\\" in 1992), Information Systems (IS) trying to identify and help to manage biodiversity have proliferated. Given the various data that they contain, they are complex applications, hardly accessible to the general public. At the same time, new communication systems allow a more natural assimilation of information: three-dimensional representations of immersive virtual worlds, also known as metaverses. By putting users in a reality reproduction built from IS, all information can be represented in a consistent virtual environment. But turning IS\'s data in a coherent metaverse is not a trivial process. Depending the IS\'s structure and the availability of metadata, several virtual worlds, representing several level of details, can be generated. This paper is a contribution to the analysis of the different possibilities to generate metaverses representing the information stored in the IS dedicated to biodiversity. It presents the generic process of worlds generation, the requirements, the different models of metaverses\' structure, and the metadata that could be used to refine the level of detail.
---------------------------------
The Metaverse encompasses technologies related to the internet, virtual and augmented reality, and other domains toward smart interfaces that are hyper-connected, immersive, and engaging. However, Metaverse applications face inherent disconnects between virtual and physical components and interfaces. This work explores how an Extended Metaverse framework can be used to increase the seamless integration of interoperable agents between virtual and physical environments. It contributes an early theory and practice toward the synthesis of virtual and physical smart environments anticipating future designs and their potential for connected experiences.
---------------------------------
Metaverse has grasped the news headlines recently. While being heavily advocated by the industry, there are great in-terests from academia as it demands various technological support from both hardware and software research. There has been an extensive visionary discussion of metaverse lately, but there are few studies on its technical challenges and user experience in practice. To fill this critical gap, in this paper, we take a first look at Workrooms, arguably a premature metaverse product released by Meta (a.k.a. Face-book). The goal of our study is to gain an in-depth under-standing of the current state of the metaverse and identify potential issues for improvement. Through extensive meas-urement studies, we dissect the underlying network support and demand of Workrooms. Our investigation reveals sev-eral interesting findings. For example, Workrooms utilizes different network flows to transmit virtual content and real-time multimedia content separately. This might be a prin-cipled approach that should be adopted in general. On the other hand, the current design of Workrooms faces imper-ative scalability challenges that should be addressed in any large-scale metaverse platform.
---------------------------------
Metaverses are immersive three-dimensional virtual worlds (VWs) where people interact with each other and their environment, using the metaphor of the real world but without its physical limitations. Unique technology capabilities of metaverses have the potential to enhance the conduct of virtual projects, but little is known about virtual worlds in this context. Virtual project teams struggle in meeting stated project outcomes due to challenges related to communication, shared understanding, and coordination. One way to address these challenges is to consider the use of emerging technologies, such as metaverses, to minimize the impact on virtual project teams. Applying a theoretical foundation for virtual teams in metaverses that includes both technology capabilities and the social interaction that takes place in the metaverse environment, we conducted an empirical investigation of project teams in a virtual world setting. The study examined the interplay of communication, representation, interaction, and team process tools with behaviors that led to role clarity, shared understanding, and coordination. While each individual technology capability contributed to project execution and outcomes, much of the power of the environment emerged through the interplay of social behaviors and technology capabilities. The results have intriguing implications for how metaverse technology capabilities might provide new ways to address gaps in the current research and practice of virtual project management and virtual teams.
---------------------------------
Mixed reality telepresence is becoming an increasingly popular form of interaction in social and collaborative applications. We are interested in how created virtual spaces can be archived, mapped, shared, and reused among different applications. Therefore, we propose a decentralized blockchain-based peer-to-peer model of distribution, with virtual spaces represented as blocks. We demonstrate the integration of our system in a collaborative mixed reality application and discuss the benefits and limitations of our approach.
---------------------------------
The metaverse is a new paradigm made possible by emerging technologies like virtual reality, augmented reality, and blockchains. Humans with disabilities should not be excluded from the metaverse and should have equitable access to it. However, it is unclear which options humans with physical and cognitive disabilities will have in the current metaverse to use and represent themselves – and feel included. Our research seeks to determine how humans with disabilities should be augmented in the metaverse, as well as whether the current metaverse permits such augmentations. If not, what features should be added to make the metaverse more accessible and inclusive? In this regard, we have begun to investigate one of the most well-known decentralized metaverses, namely Decentraland.
---------------------------------
 Several big tech companies are currently eager of building the metaverse, mainly through virtual reality experiences. Albeit immersive, in shared virtual environments it might be difficult to have emotionally rich interactions. Indeed, current available headsets and VR applications have limited possibilities for tracking and sharing emotions. We believe that physiological signal technology could enhance future metaverse applications. In this context, this paper presents a framework for visualizing, recording and synchronizing experiences in VR with human body signals. In order to prove the effectiveness of the system, we illustrate a use case and the development of a proof-of-concept scenario. Finally, we present the results of the tests conducted on this proof-of-concept that demonstrate the validity of the proposed system. Such framework could be used to design new emotionally augmented experiences in VR.
---------------------------------
The growing utilization of Internet Broadband access is popularizing Instant Messaging services enhanced with Voice and Video. However, despite the existence of open and standardized signaling protocols, the most popular services still use proprietary protocols and clients, hindering the interoperability among the existent solutions. This paper presents the methodology of implementation and validation of Metaverse: an IP Telephony and Instant Messaging application compliant with the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) open specifications, allowing its interoperability with other standards adherent solutions.A crescente utilização de Internet Banda Larga vem popularizando os serviços de Mensagens Instantâneas com recursos de conversação via voz e vídeo sobre IP. Entretanto, apesar da existência de protocolos de sinalização abertos e padronizados, os serviços mais populares utilizam protocolos e clientes propriet´rios, impedindo a interoperabilidade entre as diversas soluções. Este artigo apresenta a metodologia de implementação e validação do Metaverse: uma aplicação de Telefonia IP e Mensagens Instantâneas totalmente aderente às especificações abertas do Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), permitindo sua interoperabilidade com outras soluções aderentes aos padrões.
---------------------------------
In recent years, people have steadily grown more aware of a metaverse. Besides, the enormous business potential hidden in metaverse has drawn a significant amount of funding to conduct a study on it. Technology companies such as Facebook, Microsoft, Nvidia, and others have set out the expansion of metaverse on a global scale. As a result, metaverse research has gradually increased in various countries, becoming a heated topic in China. The reason behind the metaverse's explosion is that people recognize the enormous future business value it holds. Still, they overlook the reality that education is the largest potential field of metaverse application. The metaverse and education have a natural parallel and overlap in terms of usability. In contrast to traditional education, the shared virtual space in the metaverse allows students to better participate in education and even become teachers of teachers. However, a substantial number of people are pessimistic about the metaverse's development and implementation, believing it to be a hoax. Therefore, a questionnaire scale is designed in terms of knowledge, exposure, current technology, and confidence to count people's faith in applying metaverse in education and teaching in the near future. The obtained survey data survey is analyzed using a combination of online and field visits, using both quantitative and qualitative analysis. The lack of understanding of metaverse, lack of faith in existing technology, and lack of awareness of the application of metaverse in education were determined to be the key variables affecting people's confidence in the future use of metaverse in education. It is concluded that popularizing metaverse information, existing technological levels, and current technological development speed can notably increase people's confidence.
---------------------------------
We present a system for collecting content from 3D multi-user virtual worlds for use in a cross-world search engine, an enabling technology for linking virtual worlds to the wider web. We use an intelligent agent crawler designed to collect user-generated content without relying on access to private internal server databases. The agents navigate autonomously through the world and interact with content to discover regions, parcels of land within regions, user-created objects, other avatars, and user associations. The experiments we performed are the first which focus on the content within a large virtual world. Our results show that virtual worlds can be effectively crawled using autonomous agent crawlers that emulate normal user behavior. Additionally, we find that the collection of interactive content enhances our ability to identify dynamic, immersive environments within the world.
---------------------------------
In recent years, the metaverse has attracted enormous attention from around the world with the development of related technologies. The expected metaverse should be a realistic society with more direct and physical interactions, while the concepts of race, gender, and even physical disability would be weakened, which would be highly beneficial for society. However, the development of metaverse is still in its infancy, with great potential for improvement. Regarding metaverse's huge potential, industry has already come forward with advance preparation, accompanied by feverish investment, but there are few discussions about metaverse in academia to scientifically guide its development. In this paper, we highlight the representative applications for social good. Then we propose a three-layer metaverse architecture from a macro perspective, containing infrastructure, interaction, and ecosystem. Moreover, we journey toward both a historical and novel metaverse with a detailed timeline and table of specific attributes. Lastly, we illustrate our implemented blockchain-driven metaverse prototype of a university campus and discuss the prototype design and insights.
---------------------------------
User-extensible metaverses need an effective way to disseminate massive and dynamic 3D contents (i.e., meshes, textures, animations, etc.) to end users, and at the same time maintain a low consumption of server bandwidth. Peer-to-peer (or peer-assisted) technologies have been widely considered as a desirable complementary solution to efficaciously offload servers in large-scale media streaming applications. However, due to both the bandwidth constraints of heterogeneous users and unpredictable access patterns of latency-sensitive 3D contents, it is very challenging to cut the server bandwidth cost in metaverses. In this paper, we propose a peer-assisted texture streaming architecture to minimize the server bandwidth consumption without degrading the end-user satisfaction. We propose a game-theoretic peer selection strategy which achieves a good trade-off between performance and complexity. Our algorithm is light-weight, and can efficiently utilize the bandwidth of users in a fully decentralized manner by enabling each peer (i.e., user) to quickly select its content providers who can satisfy the requests of the peer within the latency constraint of the content. We evaluate our algorithm through an extensive comparison study based on simulations using realistic data (i.e., avatar mobility traces and textures) collected from Second Life. The simulation results show that the proposed algorithm can effectively reduce the server bandwidth consumption without degrading the user experience.
---------------------------------
 The widespread use of Head-Mounted Displays (HMDs) allows ordinary users to interact with their friends daily in social Virtual Environments (VEs) or metaverse. However, it is not easy to eat in a metaverse while wearing an HMD because the Real Environment (RE) is not visible. Currently, users watch the RE’s food through the gap between the user’s face and the HMD (None) or superimposing a video see-through (VST) image on the VE, but these methods reduce the sense of presence. To allow natural eating in a VE, we propose Ukemochi that improves the presence and ease of eating. Ukemochi seamlessly overlays a food segmentation image inferred by deep neural networks on a VE. Ukemochi can be used simultaneously as a VE created with the OpenVR API and can be easily deployed for the metaverse. In this study, we evaluated the effectiveness of Ukemochi by comparing three visual presentation methods (None, VST, and Ukemochi) and two meal conditions (Hand condition and Plate condition). The experimental results demonstrated that Ukemochi enables users to maintain a high presence in VE and improve the ease of eating. We believe that our study will provide users with the experience of eating in the metaverse and encourage further research on eating in the metaverse.
---------------------------------
 In recent years, the notion of the Metaverse has become the focus of a growing body of work in the industry. However, there is no consensus on the conceptualization in academia. To date, much of this attention has revolved around technological challenges. However, what is notably missing from these discussions is a consideration of the human factors and social aspects that are considered more critical challenges within HCI. The aims of this SIG are as follows: Firstly, to provide a platform for researchers and practitioners to engage with the various definitions and the ways in which the Metaverse is developing. Secondly, to discuss the opportunities, challenges, and future possibilities in the context of HCI. This will lay the foundations to build a network for academics interested in the field for future multidisciplinary research relating to the Metaverse.
---------------------------------
 Current Social VR literature provides limited insight on one of the most critical behaviors for developing and maintaining interpersonal relationships: self-disclosure. Therefore, we present an online survey (N = 126) investigating how users disclose personal information to each other in Social VR. Our results indicate that many participants see in Social VR access to authentic connections with others despite tending towards skepticism and privacy concerns. Most users disclose sexuality-related information, lifestyle preferences, and personal goals. In contrast, information that breaks anonymity, such as real names and more intimate aspects of oneself, are shared less commonly. Thereby, self-disclosure decisions depend on factors like the relationship to or age of disclosure recipients, the privacy of a virtual environment, the group size, or the activity context, and is driven by different goals, i.a., relational development or exploration of oneself. These insights advance the understanding of current Social VR users and their behavior by directing future research on self-disclosure-based relationship building in Social VR and outlying broader design implications for the future metaverse.
---------------------------------
In recent years a strong kind of user participation has shown up in the domain of computer games in form of game modifications and Massively Multiplayer Online Games. But in contrary to this intense user involvement, the games industry yet mainly adheres to top-down development methodology. On this note, the paper at hand discusses the approach of in-world game development in form of a serious game. This approach tries to close the userdeveloper gap by intertwining as well the concepts of development and play as also their corresponding platforms. Since the mentioned trend towards a productive kind of use and the collateral tension between conventional development and "prod-usage" is not solely game-specific but characteristic for the current paradigmatic change towards an upcoming Metaverse, the discussion is embedded within this context.
---------------------------------
No abstract available.
---------------------------------
'Archidemo' is experimental demonstration and research project for enhancing of the possibility of the architecture and environmental design in the 3D-Internet (3Di) space.
---------------------------------
No abstract available.
---------------------------------
The metaverse is a kind of imagined world with immersive digital spaces that increase, allowing a more interactive environment in educational settings. The metaverse is an expansion of the synchronous communication that embraces an effective number of users to share different experiences. The study aims to investigate the students' perceptions towards metaverse system for educational purposes in the Gulf area. The conceptual model comprises the adoption properties, namely trialability, observability, compatibility, and complexity, users' satisfaction, personal innovativeness, and Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) constructs. The novelty of the paper lies in its conceptual model that correlates both personal-based characteristics and technology-based features. In addition, the novel approach of hybrid analysis will be used in the current study to perform deep-learning-based analysis of structural equation modelling (SEM) and artificial neural network (ANN). Moreover, the importance-performance map analysis (IPMA) is used in the current study to evaluate the involved factors for their importance and performance. The study identified Perceived Usefulness (PU) to be an essential predictor of the factor of Users’ Intention to Use the Metaverse System (MS). The fact was discovered during ANN and IPMA analysis. Furthermore, this study is practically significant, as it helped the concerned authorities in educational sector in understanding the significance of each factor and allowed them to make efforts and plans according to the order of significance of factors. Another important implication of the study is methodological in nature. It validates that deep ANN architecture can offer deep insight into non-linear relationships shared by various factors of a theoretical model.
---------------------------------
The metaverse has been recognized as one of the technologies with the greatest potential today. However, the use of the metaverse for educational purposes is seldom discussed. Most educators might be unaware of the features of the metaverse, not to mention the potential applications of this emerging technology. In this position paper, we aim to provide a clear definition of the metaverse. Potential applications and research issues of the metaverse in educational settings are also presented. Moreover, the roles of AI in the metaverse as well as metaverse-based education are discussed. It is expected that, via this paper, researchers from the fields of both computer science and educational technology would have a clear picture of what the metaverse is and how it can be used for educational purposes. More importantly, it is expected that more studies related to metaverse-based education can be reported in the near future.
---------------------------------
Today, methods of museum exhibition are rapidly changing. While focusing on visitors’ museum experience, new display methods employ a variety of digital technologies to provide exhibition content in ways that allow visitors to better understand artifacts on display. However, the majority of such methods rely on one-way means of delivering information. The lack of interaction with visitors and the use of lighting that clearly separates real and virtual spaces have made museums inadequate as experiential spaces. To resolve those problems, this article suggests a plan to deploy content services for visitors’ museum experiences by combining beacons and HMDs. This study establishes the concept of a service, which provides a virtual world experience by connecting a beacon installed in real space, that is, an exhibition room, to an HMD (head-mounted display). Furthermore, the service also incorporates a storytelling feature to diversify user experience by presenting the characteristics of and stories about artifacts. The service design will make both online and on-site museum experiences meaningful. Ultimately, this article presents the exhibition content thus created as Metaverse exhibition content made through an effective combination of augmented reality and a virtual world.
---------------------------------

---------------------------------
Immersive virtual reality (VR) that utilizes head-mounted displays (HMD) is one of the key emerging technologies of the 21st century and has drawn keen attention from consumers, practitioners, and scholars in various disciplines. Nevertheless, the information systems (IS) discipline has neglected immersive VR, given that only a handful of studies have been published in mainstream IS journals. However, the recent advancements in immersive VR technology provide new opportunities for organizations and IS researchers. In light of these points, we reviewed the immersive VR literature to provide a holistic view of opportunities and challenges for organizations and future research directions for the IS field. By examining the technical capabilities of immersive VR and the previous literature, we identified five affordances: , , , , and . Our review of the 151 studies from the IS and related fields synthesized how these affordances were utilized in various research domains. Guided by the affordance-actualization theory, we also identified the strategic opportunities and challenges that come with implementing VR. The actualization of immersive VR affordances in organizations is indeed a fruitful area for IS scholars as there are various venues to move the IS field as well as the VR research in the organizational context forward.
---------------------------------
The Metaverse is the expansion of Digital Twins in the fields of people and society. Although the Metaverse existed 10 years before the emergence of Digital Twins, it is still in the concept stage, and Digital Twins has been widely used in industries and other fields. Compared with Digital Twins, the Metaverse pays more attention to the organization, coding, and reliable storage of spatial data. This paper discusses the challenge of dealing with multiscale spatial data and discusses its multidimensional coding and storage.
---------------------------------
The blend education of e-learning and hands-on activity was carried out, using Metaverse. The topic was picked up, relating to radioactivity, nuclear safety education and STEM education. The students were six 5 and 6 graders in an elementary school. The lecture was given to them through the virtual class in Metaverse (Second Life). And then, the hands-on experiments relating to radioactivity were carried out in real life, lead and guided by the teacher in Second Life synchronistically and supported by the teacher in real life sometimes. The questionnaire given to each of students after the hands-on experiments showed very clearly that the project satisfied with the original goals very well, from both viewpoints of STEM education and nuclear safety education at early stage (pre secondary) levels. We concluded that the blend education worked well for STEM education to much extent.
---------------------------------
This paper introduces and describes a learning system for analyzing devices in a virtual world and points out its significance for current research collaboration. Now we are in Society 5.0, so daily problems should be solved by IoT (Internet of Things) with a mutual collaboration without borders. The authors need to collaborate with each other among remote organizations and different nations. For such situations, we need to establish the learning system for analyzing devices which would lead to an actual sharing system in the future. In this paper, the proposed concept for the learning system in metaverse is explained. The significance of the system is described, too.
---------------------------------
Presents the introductory editorial for this issue of the publication.
---------------------------------
Metaverse as the latest buzzword has attracted great attention from both industry and academia. Metaverse seamlessly integrates the real world with the virtual world and allows avatars to carry out rich activities including creation, display, entertainment, social networking, and trading. Thus, it is promising to build an exciting digital world and to transform a better physical world through the exploration of the metaverse. In this survey, we dive into the metaverse by discussing how Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence (AI) fuse with it through investigating the state-of-the-art studies across the metaverse components, digital currencies, AI applications in the virtual world, and blockchain-empowered technologies. Further exploitation and interdisciplinary research on the fusion of AI and Blockchain towards metaverse will definitely require collaboration from both academia and industries. We wish that our survey can help researchers, engineers, and educators build an open, fair, and rational future metaverse.
---------------------------------
Welcome to the first issue of the IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems (TCSS) of 2022. We would like to take this opportunity to express our sincere thanks to our associate editors, reviewers, authors, and readers for your great support and effort devoted to IEEE TCSS. Happy New Year to you all, and cheers to health, happiness, and high-producing in 2022!
---------------------------------
Investments in Web 3.0 and the metaverse are growing rapidly. This paper focuses on the impacts of these developments on organizations' brand and product strategies.
---------------------------------
This editorial analyzes national, political, global geopolitical, ethical, social, and environmental issues associated with Web3 and the metaverse. It also introduces the feature articles, columns, and departments that appear in this issue.
---------------------------------
This article describes research into computational human perception’s potential to be the core of a human-intelligent metaverse, a sensed world that interacts with our physical, emotional, and mental states.
---------------------------------
All of the different Metaversi currently cannot share your friends list, your avatar, or any in-game experience you have had. This needs to be engineered in from the start for the Metaverse to succeed.
---------------------------------
In this letter, we propose a novel digital twin scheme supported metaverse by jointly considering the integrated model of communications, computing, and storage through the employment of mobile edge computing (MEC) and ultra-reliable and low latency communications (URLLC). The MEC-based URLLC digital twin architecture is proposed to provide powerful computing infrastructure by exploring task offloading, and task caching techniques in nearby edge servers to reduce the latency. In addition, the proposed digital twin scheme can guarantee stringent requirements of reliability and low latency, which are highly applicable for the future networked systems of metaverse. For this first time in the literature, our paper addresses the optimal problem of the latency/reliablity in digital twins-enabled metaverse by optimizing various communication and computation variables, namely, offloading portions, edge caching policies, bandwidth allocation, transmit power, computation resources of user devices and edge servers. The proposed scheme can improve the quality-of-experience of the digital twin in terms of latency and reliability with respect to metaverse applications.
---------------------------------
In the emerging world of metaverses, it is essential for speech communication systems to be aware of context to interact with virtual assets in the 3D world. This paper proposes the metaverse for aircraft maintenance training and education of Boeing-737, supplied with legacy manuals, 3D models, 3D simulators, and aircraft maintenance knowledge. Furthermore, to navigate and control operational flow in the metaverse, which is strictly followed by maintenance manuals, the context-aware speech understanding module Neuro-Symbolic Speech Executor (NSSE) is presented. Unlike conventional speech recognition methods, NSSE applies Neuro-Symbolic AI, which combines neural networks and traditional symbolic reasoning, to understand users’ requests and reply based on context and aircraft-specific knowledge. NSSE is developed with an industrially flexible approach by applying only synthetic data for training. Nevertheless, the evaluation process performed with various automatic speech recognition metrics on real users’ data showed sustainable results with an average accuracy of 94.7%, Word Error Rate (WER) of 7.5%, and the generalization ability to handle speech requests of users with the non-native pronunciation. The proposed Aircraft Maintenance Metaverse is a cheap and scalable solution for aviation colleges since it replaces expensive physical aircraft with virtual one that can be easily modified and updated. Moreover, the Neuro-Symbolic Speech Executor, playing the role of field expert, provides technical guidance and all the resources to facilitate effective training and education of aircraft maintenance.
---------------------------------
Unlike previous studies on the Metaverse based on Second Life, the current Metaverse is based on the social value of Generation Z that online and offline selves are not different. With the technological development of deep learning-based high-precision recognition models and natural generation models, Metaverse is being strengthened with various factors, from mobile-based always-on access to connectivity with reality using virtual currency. The integration of enhanced social activities and neural-net methods requires a new definition of Metaverse suitable for the present, different from the previous Metaverse. This paper divides the concepts and essential techniques necessary for realizing the Metaverse into three components (i.e., hardware, software, and contents) and three approaches (i.e., user interaction, implementation, and application) rather than marketing or hardware approach to conduct a comprehensive analysis. Furthermore, we describe essential methods based on three components and techniques to Metaverse’s representative Ready Player One, Roblox, and Facebook research in the domain of films, games, and studies. Finally, we summarize the limitations and directions for implementing the immersive Metaverse as social influences, constraints, and open challenges.
---------------------------------
Metaverse (MS) is a digital universe accessible through a virtual environment. It is established through the merging of virtually improved physical and digital reality. Metaverse (MS) offers enhanced immersive experiences and a more interactive learning experience for students in learning and educational settings. It is an expanded and synchronous communication setting that allows different users to share their experiences. The present study aims to evaluate students’ perception of the application of MS in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for medical-educational purposes. In this study, 1858 university students were surveyed to examine this model. The study’s conceptual framework consisted of adoption constructs including Technology Acceptance Model (TAM), Personal innovativeness (PI), Perceived Compatibility (PCO), User Satisfaction (US), Perceived Triability (PTR), and Perceived Observability (POB). The study was unique because the model correlated technology-based features and individual-based features. The study also used hybrid analyses such as Machine Learning (ML) algorithms and Structural Equation Modelling (SEM). The present study also employs the Importance Performance Map Analysis (IPMA) to assess the importance and performance factors. The study finds US as an essential determinant of users’ intention to use the metaverse (UMS). The present study’s finding is useful for stakeholders in the educational sector in understanding the importance of each factor and in making plans based on the order of significance of each factor. The study also methodologically contributes to Information Systems (IS) literature because it is one of the few studies that have used a complementary multi-analytical approach such as ML algorithms to investigate the UMS metaverse systems.
---------------------------------
Centralization has dominated classic scientific, social, and economic developments. Decentralization has also received increasing attention in management, decision, governance, and economics, despite its incomparability in AI. Going beyond centralized and distributed AI, this article reviews and delineates the conceptual map, research issues, and technical opportunities of decentralized AI and edge intelligence. The complementarity and metasynthesis between centralized and decentralized AI are also elaborated. We further assess where decentralized AI and edge intelligence can enable and promote smart blockchain, Web3, metaverse and decentralized science disciplinarily, technically, practically, and more broadly.
---------------------------------
This article outlines a journey toward the TRUE DAO System of Intelligent Systems based parallel intelligence with the help of digital twins, metaverses, web 3.0, and blockchain technology. It argues for a HANOI approach, i.e., integrated Human, Artificial, Natural, and Organizational Intelligence for achieving knowledge automation for sustainable and smart societies.
---------------------------------
This study proposes a metaverse podcast by avatar scene that combines VRM 3D Model, facial expressions and body language, by means of real-time import of face capture and motion capture into the mirror-like software, and outputs the image as a virtual camera. By faithfully presenting the process of verbal expression and behavioral response, the image of the virtual avatar is more vivid and closer to the other self. The importance of the facial expression of the virtual avatar in the expression process is studied, which also increases the possibility of development of virtual reality technology.
---------------------------------
In this era of technological change, metaverse has attracted extensive attention from all over the world as next-generation internet. Blockchain technology plays an indispensable role in realizing the independent digital identity and economic system which are the significant attributes of the metaverse. To achieve the cross-universe mechanism and reduce network resource consumption, this paper proposes a cross-chain protocol for the underlying architecture of metaverse that utilizes an identity information chain to guarantee the separate digital identity of users and decrease the data interaction between varied consortium blockchains. However, along with the rapid development of quantum computing, the classical cryptosystems which commonly count on mathematical complexity will not be reliable and secure. The current post-quantum cryptography technologies that increase the time complexity of algorithm will lead to quite low efficiency and high resource overhead while applying to blockchain structures. But quantum cryptography is capable of lifting both security and efficiency of blockchain. As a result, the scheme put forward in the article adopts quantum teleportation to implement secure communication. In addition, to assure the atomicity of cross-chain transactions that cross-chain asset exchanges succeed or fail simultaneously, a quantum time lock that improves the previous studies and combines quantum cryptography technology is proposed.
---------------------------------
Metaverse has recently attracted paramount attention due to its potential for future Internet. However, to fully realize such potential, Metaverse applications have to overcome various challenges such as massive resource demands, interoperability among applications, and security and privacy concerns. In this paper, we propose MetaChain, a novel blockchain-based framework to address emerging challenges for the development of Metaverse applications. In particular, by utilizing the smart contract mechanism, MetaChain can effectively manage and automate complex interactions among the Metaverse Service Provider (MSP) and the Metaverse users (MUs). In addition, to allow the MSP to efficiently allocate its resources for Metaverse applications and MUs’ demands, we design a novel sharding scheme to improve the underlying blockchain’s scalability. Moreover, to leverage MUs’ resources as well as to attract more MUs to support Metaverse operations, we develop an incentive mechanism using the Stackelberg game theory that rewards MUs’ contributions to the Metaverse. Through numerical experiments, we clearly show the impacts of the MUs’ behaviors and how the incentive mechanism can attract more MUs and resources to the Metaverse.
---------------------------------
This article applies the fuzzy ontology concepts of Heart Sutra to artificial intelligence (AI) for elementary and high-school students learning English and fuzzy markup language (FML) in AI-FML Metaverse. Computational Intelligence (CI) is an imperative branch of AI and it includes fuzzy logic (FL), neural network (NN), and evolutionary computation (EC). Based on the technologies of reinforcement learning (RL), intelligent agent, ontology, and AI-FML human and machine co-learning, we propose a fuzzy ontology-based intelligent agent for young students to learn and experience CI applications, including basic concepts of FL, NN, and EC, on the AI-FML Metaverse platform. Additionally, we combine the core technologies of fuzzy ontology and AI-FML with the tenets of the Heart Sutra for constructing the intelligent agent in the AI-FML Metaverse with computational, perceptive, and cognitive intelligence. Moreover, we also apply the human semantic understanding of the Heart Sutra to explain the concept of the AI-FML Metaverse platform to elementary and high-school students to learn and experience CI. The intelligent agent interacts with the environment of the learning field and AI-FML Metaverse, it can help teachers and students evaluate learners’ interest in each episode’s learning content. Finally, it predicts their learning temperature in thermometers to present learners’ performance in the learning contents, such as English or CI application. After evaluating the implementation of AI-FML Metaverse in the elementary school (grades 5-6), junior high school (grades 7-8), and senior high school (grades 10-12) students in Taiwan, we observe that the intelligent agent can work effectively and students’ learning thermometer has an increasing tendency at the end of the 2021 fall semesters in AI-FML Metaverse and 2022 AI-FML winter camp in Taiwan.
---------------------------------
The combination of realistic virtual environments and product information offers a compelling new medium for consumers to shop for products. Specifically, by combining the experience of exploring a virtual house with retail information on items in that house, a consumer can virtually populate a house with desired items. This is particularly appealing for people, such as a couple getting married, who are looking to furnish an entire house with newly-purchased items. The system proposed in this paper provides this combination of realistic, 3D visualization and detailed product information. It uses Second Life to provide the realistic user interface, and a REST-style web-based application to create connections between this platform and publicly-available retailer APIs. In cases where a retailer API is unavailable, HTML wrapping may be used to obtain equivalent information. The economic viability of the concept is examined through a business case study.
---------------------------------
The Metaverse is regarded as the next-generation Internet paradigm that allows humans to play, work, and socialize in an alternative virtual world with an immersive experience, for instance, via head-mounted displays for Virtual Reality (VR) rendering. With the help of ubiquitous wireless connections and powerful edge computing technologies, VR users in the wireless edge-empowered Metaverse can immerse themselves in the virtual through the access of VR services offered by different providers. However, VR applications are computation- and communication-intensive. The VR service providers (SPs) have to optimize the VR service delivery efficiently and economically given their limited communication and computation resources. An incentive mechanism can be thus applied as an effective tool for managing VR services between providers and users. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a learning-based Incentive Mechanism framework for VR services in the Metaverse. First, we propose the quality of perceptual experience as the metric for VR users immersing in the virtual world. Second, for quick trading of VR services between VR users (i.e., buyers) and VR SPs (i.e., sellers), we design a double Dutch auction mechanism to determine optimal pricing and allocation rules in this market. Third, for auction information exchange cost reduction, we design a deep reinforcement learning-based auctioneer to accelerate this auction process. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework can achieve near-optimal social welfare while reducing at least half of the auction information exchange cost than baseline methods.
---------------------------------
Metaverse depicts a vista of constructing a virtual environment parallel to the real world so people can communicate with others and objects through digital entities. In the real world, communication relies on identities and addresses that are recognized by authorities, no matter the link is established via post, email, mobile phone, or landline. Metaverse, however, is different from the real world, which requires a single identity belongs to the individual. This identity can be an encrypted virtual address in the metaverse but no one can trace or verify it. In order to achieve such addresses to hide individuals in the metaverse, re-mapping the virtual address to the individual\'s identity and a specific spectrum to support the address-based communication for the metaverse are needed. Therefore, metaverse native or meta-native communications based on blockchain could be a promising solution to directly connect entities with their native encrypted addresses that gets rid of the existing network services based on IP, cellular, HTTP, etc. This paper proposes a vision of blockchain, encrypted address and address-based access model for all users, devices, services, etc. to contribute to the meta-verse. Furthermore, the allocation architecture of a designated spectrum for the metaverse is proposed to remove the barrier to access to the metaverse/blockchain in response to the initiatives of metaverse and decentralized Internet.
---------------------------------
The metaverse promises a host of bright opportunities for business, economics, and society. Though, a number of critical aspects are still to be considered and the analysis of their impact is almost non-existent. In this paper, we provide several contributions. We start by analysing the foundations of the metaverse, later we focus on the novel privacy and security issues introduced by this new paradigm, and finally we broaden the scope of the contribution highlighting some of the far-reaching yet logical implications of the metaverse on a number of domains, not all of them in tech. Throughout the paper, we also discuss possible research directions. We believe that the provided holistic view on the foundations, technology, and issues related to the metaverse-with a focus on security and privacy-, other than being an interesting contribution on its own, could also pave the way for a few multidisciplinary research avenues.
---------------------------------
The Meta-verse is the new, innovative platform in which is being investigated by every industry. The thought of simulating reality in a digital platform was never inconceivable but seemed distant. Now, it is taking over every industry like wildfire and the possibilities seem endless. Recently, the healthcare industry is looking into implementing the qualities of the metaverse within specialties and practices of medical professionals. This space encompasses a variety of factors such as virtual reality, augmented reality, and secured spaces for communication and processes. The healthcare industry has been looking into methods to increase patient experience and broadening the accessibility of medical care. Although the concept of the metaverse is not new, the uses are still unexplored and has to many unknowns. In an industry where patient data is critical and remains at the upmost level of privacy, it is unsure that it will remain with its integrity still intact. This paper is aiming to explore the use of the meta-verse in the healthcare industry along with the current status, challenges, and perspective of applicable technology and practices. To be more specific, we focused on the outpatient telemedicine practice experience using body sensor networks and the challenges of maintaining privacy in a healthcare metaverse space.
---------------------------------
The recent Facebook rebranding to Meta has drawn renewed attention to the metaverse. Technology giants, amongst others, are increasingly embracing the vision and opportunities of a hybrid social experience that mixes physical and virtual interactions. As the metaverse gains in traction, it is expected that everyday objects may soon connect more closely with virtual elements. However, discovering this “hidden” virtual world will be a crucial first step to interacting with it in this new augmented world. In this paper, we address the problem of connecting phys-ical objects with their virtual counterparts, especially through connections built upon visual markers. We propose a unified recognition framework that guides approaches to the metaverse access points. We illustrate the use of the framework through experimental studies under different conditions, in which an interactive and visually attractive decoration pattern, an Artcode, is used as the approach to enable the connection. This paper will be of interest to, amongst others, researchers working in Interaction Design or Augmented Reality who are seeking techniques or guidelines for augmenting physical objects in an unobtrusive, complementary manner.
---------------------------------
Metaverse provides an alternative platform for human interaction in the virtual world. Since virtual platform holds few restrictions in changing the surrounding environments or the appearance of the avatars, it can serve as a platform that reflects human thoughts or even dreams at least in the metaverse world. When it is merged together with the current brain-computer interface (BCI) technology, which enables system control via brain signals, a new paradigm of human interaction through mind may be established in the metaverse conditions. Recent BCI systems are aiming to provide user-friendly and intuitive means of communication using brain signals. Imagined speech has become an alternative neuro-paradigm for communicative BCI since it relies directly on a person’s speech production process, rather than using speech-unrelated neural activity as the means of communication. In this paper, we propose a brain-to-speech (BTS) system for real-world smart communication using brain signals. Also, we show a demonstration of imagined speech based smart home control through communication with a virtual assistant, which can be one of the future applications of brain-metaverse system. We performed pseudo-online analysis using imagined speech electroencephalography data of nine subjects to investigate the potential use of virtual BTS system in the real-world. Average accuracy of 46.54 ± 9.37 % and 75.56 ± 5.83 % was acquired in the thirteen-class and binary pseudo-online analysis, respectively. Our results support the potential of imagined speech based smart communication to be applied in the metaverse world.
---------------------------------
This paper evaluates metaverses as a platform for game based learning. Metaverses such as Second Life are a relatively new type of Internet application. Their functionality is similar to that offered by 3D multi-player online games, but differs in that users are able to construct the environment that avatars inhabit and are not constrained by predefined goals of the type found within a game environment. From a quality of service (QoS) perspective metaverses are similar to games in that the timeliness of network communication is important, but differ in that their demands upon host server systems and network traffic are more bandwidth intensive. This paper contributes to our understanding of metaverses by presenting a case study of the application of Game Based Learning (GBL) within a metaverse environment, by situating the case study within a survey of the state of the art in GBL in metaverses and by analysing the QoS delivered by the widely used Second Life metaverse under a range of evaluator-induced network conditions.
---------------------------------
During the years of Suprematism, between 1919 and 1923 in Russia, one of the movement\'s most significant contributors, architect, artist and designer El Lissitzky developed a series of works which he entitled \\"Prouns\\" a name the exact meaning of which El Lissitzky never fully revealed, although he later described the purpose of his creations as interchange stations from painting to architecture, i.e., From two dimensional to three dimensional visuality. The author has re-created El Lissitzky\'s \\"Proun 5A\\" from 1919 in the metaverse, as an architecture for avatars. The process in which the translation from analogue drawing to three dimensional digital artifact was undertaken, the challenges encountered during its re-building, framed within a literature review that examines both El Lissitzky\'s influence on contemporary cyber-architecture, as well as the significance of his spatial investigations and his sources of inspiration during the early decades of the twentieth century will form the contents of this text.
---------------------------------
In this text I wish to delve into the creation of textual content as well as its visualization through typographic design mechanisms inside three dimensional virtual worlds, which are known as the metaverse. I am particularly focused upon the way in which such virtually three dimensional environments may place the usage of text within a context that stands in contradiction to its traditional one by creating an unexpected novel purpose which takes a marked departure from the intrinsic attribute with which text has inherently been associated - namely the attribute of readability. In such environments readability, or indeed even legibility, may often be displaced through the usage of text and typography as a playful device, as artifacts which may manifest in puzzle-like configurations, or as visual structures the contents of which are meant to be understood through means other than straightforward reading, thus bringing about states of heightened engagement, wonder and \'play\' through their manipulation or indeed simply by being immersed within the spaces which are brought about through their very agency. I also wish to expand upon this subject by talking about my own experiments with this material and will conclude by positing that further virtual dimensions can be instrumental in eliciting exciting alternative usages of text and typography which bring to the fore the allographic properties of text as an artistic/creative expressive media that may well bear further scrutiny and exploration.
---------------------------------
It is complicated for the PwHL (people with hearing loss) to make a relationship with social majority, which naturally demands an interactive auto computer systems that have ability to understand sign language. With a trending Metaverse applications using augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), it is easier and interesting to teach sign language remotely using an avatar that mimics the gesture of a person using AI (Artificial Intelligence)-based system. There are various proposed methods and datasets for English SL (sign language); however, it is limited for Arabic sign language. Therefore, we present our collected and annotated Arabic Sign Language Letters Dataset (ArSL21L) consisting of 14202 images of 32 letter signs with various backgrounds collected from 50 people. We benchmarked our ArSL21L dataset on state-of-the-art object detection models, i.e., 4 versions of YOLOv5. Among the models, YOLOv5l achieved the best result with COCOmAP of 0.83. Moreover, we provide comparison results of classification task between ArSL2018 dataset, the only Arabic sign language letter dataset for classification task, and our dataset by running classification task on in-house short video. The results revealed that the model trained on our dataset has a superior performance over the model trained on ArSL2018. Moreover, we have created our prototype avatar which can mimic the ArSL (Arabic Sign Language) gestures for Metaverse applications. Finally, we believe, ArSL21L and the ArSL avatar will offer an opportunity to enhance the research and educational applications for not only the PwHL, but also in general real and virtual world applications. Our ArSL21L benchmark dataset is publicly available for research use on the Mendeley."
---------------------------------
We envision in the future the virtual world will mix and co-exist with the physical world in such an immersive way that we cannot tell what is real and what is virtual. We will live and interact with the virtual objects that are blended into our environments with advanced holographic technology or with high-quality head mounted displays and lose the virtuality boundary. We call such a new reality Surreality. Our vision of “metaverse” is a multi-world. There are multiple virtual worlds developed by different technology companies and there is also the Surreality where real and virtual merged. While the metaverse may seem futuristic, catalysed by emerging technologies such as Extended Reality, 5G, and Artificial Intelligence, the digital “big bang” of our cyberspace is not far away. This talk aims to offer a comprehensive framework that examines the latest metaverse development under the dimensions of state-of-the-art technologies and metaverse ecosystems, illustrates the possibility of the digital “big bang”, and propose a concrete research agenda for the development of the metaverse. Reality will die; long live Surreality.
---------------------------------
The notion of a metaverse seems hard to define but encourages the impression that it can be considered as a new virtual metaphysical landscape that somehow goes beyond our geographical locations and understanding (i.e., independent of time and space). Based on virtual reality, augmented reality, and blockchain, it is envisioned as an independent but extended world that is planned to be a digital virtuality entrenched not only in our old habits such as gaming and entertainment but also in virtual asset trade. In particular, trading is a pillar of the virtual economy, and auction houses will be crucial for Metaverse trading. This exploratory study examines the possibility of using an auction environment to improve the trading capabilities in a virtual universe. We investigate the cases of creating a virtual auction house with the potential of social trading of virtual assets with crypto coins and bartering. To this end, we built a virtual auction house and tested it initially using a set of scenarios. Our preliminary findings suggest that creating a virtual trading environment would be beneficial as an environment for buying and selling virtual assets and exploring their consequences.
---------------------------------
This research provides a study on analyzing emotional intelligence in the New Normal using Metaverse application for digital native generation. Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak has created new behavior and characterized human life to be more aware of the new digital applications. Significantly, research results show that the digital native generation, whose internet environment was typical from their birth, is optimistic in New Normal life amid COVID 19. In 2021, Metaverse set off a new generation of online interactive user behavior concepts. According to some research, the developing concept of Metaverse fits precisely in line with the future living of the digital native generation. However, some psychological side consequences should be revealed concurrently with the positive impact conceived. People's emotional intelligence argues for reduction due to the dissatisfaction of rapid adaptation to the New Normal condition. Thus, this research demonstrates an analysis to mitigate the psychological side effects of emotional intelligence when people are bound to the New Normal life. The improvement of the Web-based Extended Reality (WebXR), a critical development field of Metaverse, is proposed together to assist the immersive experience demands in addressing the problem-solution methods.
---------------------------------
Due to its wider and wider range of applications, virtual reality technology plays a very important role in expanding the field of human existence. From traditional video games to online games to “Metaverse”, human beings have made virtual reality more refined and comprehensive. Technical entertainment based on virtual reality has also caused social problems such as addictive dependence and escapism. “Metaverse”, or the so-called “virtual reality Internet”, as a representative of the next generation of Internet, contains both risks and opportunities.
---------------------------------
Much emphasis has been placed on the expansion of the metaverse space, which enables a large number of people to participate concurrently and conduct business or entertainment in their field of interest. A close connection between the metaverse and the real space is expected to significantly increase the availability of the two spaces; however, an effective method for this connection has not yet been presented. In this paper, we propose the XR (cross reality) Telexperience Portal as one method for connecting both remote real space and past space with the metaverse. Furthermore, when people communicate in the metaverse’s 3D space, they require avatars to represent themselves, for which a variety of avatar designs are used. However, highly realistic avatars that hold the identity of the participant are not yet used. In this paper, we propose a method for generating natural facial expressions of a high-reality avatar to become a reliable conversation partner.
---------------------------------
This paper explores the interaction between the virtual world and the real world through the integration of the analysis of the metaverse and the theme park. At the same time, case studies of the application of the concept of metaverse in games and movies are conducted to explore the current manifestations of metaverse and critically explore the ethical issues it raises. The theme park here represents not only an IP, but also a broader cultural symbol. Under the development trend of metaverse, how real world theme parks should convey their cultural symbols, and in what form we can bring real world theme parks into the world of metaverse will become urgent issues to be solved. This paper will illustrate the process of a real theme park elements by transforming them into digital artworks through a design concept. This transformation not only enables virtualization of the real world, but also enables cultural dissemination to the world while virtualizing.
---------------------------------
With the development of internet technology, several IT companies and users have become interested in virtual worlds, called metaverses. However, one of the main problems for a metaverse is the number of resources required to develop it. To reduce the burden of high computing power and other related resources, we propose a method that uses mobile phone functions and data to generate a personal virtual space as there is still a research gap in this area. In this study, we propose a method to intuitively generate a personal virtual space using smartphone data. We propose the development of a new type of metaverse application using the photo data saved on a smartphone. We hypothesized that using the new metaverse application induces more happiness and excitement than using the smartphone gallery application to view memorable photos. To evaluate the new metaverse application, we measured the emotional responses of users and compared the two applications. The results indicate that using the new metaverse application results in higher happiness and excitement. 
---------------------------------
The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has markedly changed the ways we live and the ways we play games. This is because the situations disrupted by the virus have forced so many people to quarantine and self-isolate. These can lead to many serious problems such as mental and physical health. At the same time, the metaverse, particularly virtual reality and augmented reality, has been very popular in the fields of human-computer interaction and computer science in recent years. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a new research work for exploring recent digital games inspired during the virus outbreak to support people in various aspects, such as entertaining people during the pandemic period, enhancing awareness among people about the virus, suggesting preventive measures against the spread of the virus. Next, more specifically, the impacts of COVID-19 on recent games from virtual and augmented realities are examined. We investigate metaverse games to support people during COVID-19 and the post-pandemic period, including enhancing the healthcare education toolkit, simulating health protection protocols, and supporting healthcare workers.
---------------------------------
Through surveying experienced users of metaverse platforms, we discovered that one of the challenges users face is to color new items used in the metaverse. Assisting users with coloring can be considerably effective because many metaverse platforms provide coloring and mapping development figures as a major means of creation. This method is widely used for creating new items and does not require users’ proficiency in 3D modeling. Accordingly, we tried to lower the barrier of creation by developing the effective color suggestion method. Most of prior color suggestion studies focused on the algorithm [1–6] but the method is also an important aspect of color suggestion. Therefore, we designed comprehensive evaluation criteria by collecting users’ feedback. We suggest “Kind of information”, “Value of information”, “Novelty”, and “Relevance” as criteria for evaluating the color suggestion method. In the following experiment, participants colored a virtual item using two different color suggestion methods that had previously been utilized in previous experiments and without color suggestion. After the task, participants compared three different methods using Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) pair-wise comparison with criteria we designed. As a result of the experiment, users preferred to be offered colors that matches the product rather than to be offered only set of colors and preferred to be offered only set of colors rather than not being offered any colors.
---------------------------------
This paper mainly explores the possibility of light environment art in digital scenes from the perspective of Metaverse research. Firstly, the concept of Metaverse is summarized and condensed on the basis of existing research results. The digital scene in the Metaverse is a digital society with a high degree of integration between virtual and reality. Continuous presence and a highly immersive experience. The light environment art, as the art of painting with light as the language, plays an irreplaceable role in both the real world and the digital scene. The light environment art stated in this article mainly refers to the virtual light environment art that plays a role in the digital scene. From the perspective of Metaverse research, this paper summarizes the three major characteristics of light environment art: hypermedia information transmission, surreal space construction of light images, and nonlinear light language and painting narrative mode; and further analyzes the light environment in the Metaverse space. The application of art includes: the symbol designation of the light environment in the virtual architecture, the visual presentation of the light environment in the virtual architecture, and the shaping of the light environment space in the virtual architecture.
---------------------------------
Massively Multiplayer Online Games (MMOGs) are no longer just games. “Metaverses,” a variant of these games, which include Second Life and Active Worlds, represent some of the most immersive, interactive possibilities for learning, simulation, and digital design in use today. They also increasingly blur distinctions between work and play, as well as user and designer, prompting questions about the nature and practice of virtual design, that is, design that is practiced inside virtual reality by and on 3D avatars. This paper describes results from a qualitative study of collaborative design practices within Second Life, a popular metaverse and design environment. We analyze design processes, including the artifacts that avatar-designer create and use in the design activities.
---------------------------------
Metaverse is the next generation gaming Internet, and virtual humans play an important role in Metaverse. The simultaneous representation of motions and emotions of virtual humans attracts more attention in academics and industry, which significantly improves user experience with the vivid continuous simulation of virtual humans. Different from existing work which only focuses on either the expression of facial expressions or body motions, this paper presents a novel and real-time virtual human prototyping system, which enables a simultaneous real-time expression of motions and emotions of virtual humans (short for SimuMan). SimuMan not only enables users to generate personalized virtual humans in the metaverse world, but also enables them to naturally and simultaneously present six facial expressions and ten limb motions, and continuously generate various facial expressions by setting parameters. We evaluate SimuMan objectively and subjectively to demonstrate its fidelity, naturalness, and real-time. The experimental results show that the SimuMan system is characterized by low latency, good interactivity, easy operation, good robustness, and wide application.
---------------------------------
On the basis of introducing the metaverse and the digital economy and supporting the development trend of new technologies, the concept of service-to-service (S2S) ecosystem is defined. The metaverse is used to build a virtual digital world and link the physical world. This paper focuses on the connotation of the two words Meta and Verse of the metaverse, and proposes a management framework of metaverse resources (Non-fungible token, 3D space, experience, avatar, etc.) in scenarios that support interactions such as the management of work, life, transaction, and customers. Then the paper proposes a metaverse reference architecture (MRA) for systematically constructing metaverse solutions. Finally, this paper also looks forward to the future development trend of the metaverse.
---------------------------------
Metaverse-enabled Learning Spaces (MeLS) offer significant improvements over traditional modes of teaching allowing for experiential learning. On the other hand, there is large number of capabilities the immersive 3D word of Metaverse-enabled spaces has to offer to traditional web-based tools for learning. Unfortunately, those capabilities are not being leveraged. We build upon a number of open source learning packages and offer an architecture for Metaverse services extending learning capabilities by offering 3D environments as services inside and in combination with more traditional web-based systems. The goal is to allow educators and students to easily move from traditional web-based systems into MeLS experiencing environments, which are not available in a traditional LMS software package, but can be offered or enhanced by the Metaverse presentation layer. This is made possible by our method for performing mediated teleporting into the MeLS.
---------------------------------
As Facebook takes on metaverse as its new business infrastructure and company image, this new development blows a swirling wind through the IT industry. However, metaverse as a new enterprise paradigm is still quite unfamiliar to many technical people, letting along most business managers. In this paper, we give an overview of metaverse as a potential business platform and propose a framework for enterprise digitization. In particular, we clarify several critical concepts such as blockchainization, gamification, tokenization, and virtualization in relation to four Ps of marketing mix: People, Place, Product, and Process; although as many as ten Ps have been proposed, four of them are sufficient for our purposes.
---------------------------------
”Metaverse” is a new service that connects users to three dimensional virtual space constructed as electronic data through the Internet, which is expected to be popular in the future. Although Metaverse is expected as a promising platform for information exchange and communication among Internet users, it has several shortcomings such as a requirement of relatively high-performance client terminals and its long response time in some cases. We have analyzed the problem of the response time from a viewpoint of load of the server in order to construct an efficient and high-performance server. OpenSim server that provides the metaverse service as open source software has been constructed and evaluated. In this paper, we have made OpenSim server in grid mode to analyze distributed Metaverse service. We have evaluated Metaverse server performance during the phase of user login to Metaverse service and teleport from one region to another. That is to say, we have focused on a server side of Metaverse system, analyzed its behavior, and clarified the cause of its long response time.
---------------------------------
Imitation Learning (IL) is a powerful approach for constructing human-like NPCs in games. Unlike general games, metaverse games tend to build up the more complex, and more diverse game characters. Data between distinct roles is not interoperable, which leads to the challenge of sparse samples. We consider transferring the information from different tasks to solve the problem of sparse samples. Unfortunately, this approach also faces two thorny issues of privacy protection and knowledge transfer across tasks. To solve a series of problems, we propose a practical approach termed Federated Multi-Task Inverse Soft Actor-Critic (Fed-MT-ISAC), which extends the Inverse Soft Actor-Critic (ISAC) to federated and multi-task cases. We compare the performance of all algorithms in multi-style tasks and multi-skill tasks. Empirical results show that the proposed algorithm successfully achieves performance improvement in all experimental settings.
---------------------------------
E-learning continues to be used as an educational tool all over the world. However, the typical e-learning systems are sometimes not enough for students to feel a close connection with others. Now engineering education needs to be carried out from a global viewpoint, since there are lots of opportunities for international collaboration in higher education organizations. In this study, we investigated multilingual discussion in Metaverse and its possibility to enhance the skills for international discussion and international characteristics. Students from Edwards-Knox high school in the USA, graduate students from Yonsei University, Korea, and Nagaoka University of Technology (NUT), Japan, participated in this discussion held on the virtual island (owned by NUT) of Second Life. A language grid system was incorporated into the Metaverse system. This made it possible for the discussion to be carried out with and without the translation system. These sessions were carried out and compared with each other. Also the effectiveness of the international discussion project in Metaverse (with the language grid system) was discussed.
---------------------------------
The authors have established an e-learning system by utilizing Second life and language grid system where virtual and multilingual discussions would be possible. To investigate the possibility of PBL in virtual engineering class, the virtual infrastructure was used for PBL in materials science and engineering. In this study, a learning environment for both the lecture and PBL discussion in a virtual space was built and the effectiveness and possibility for the application of e-learning was evaluated from the viewpoint of engineering education. The questionnaire and the sentence analyses indicate that the language grid system brought the class more beneficial effects and suggest that the system could be used effectively for the virtual problem based learning in Metaverse.
---------------------------------
The core Immersive Media (IM) technologies of Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) have steadily advanced over the last thirty years, enabling high fidelity experiences at consumer prices. Over the same period, networking speeds have increased dramatically, culminating in the deployment of 5G networks. Combined, these advancements greatly increase the prospects for widespread adoption of virtual and augmented worlds. Recently branded “the metaverse” by Meta and other large platforms, major corporations are currently investing billions to deploy immersive worlds that target mainstream activities from socializing and shopping to education and business. With the prospect that corporate-controlled metaverse environments proliferate society over the next decade, it is important to consider the risks to consumers and plan for meaningful regulation. This is especially true in light of the unexpected negative impact that social media platforms have had on society in recent years. The dangers of the metaverse are outlined herein along with proposals for sensible regulation.
---------------------------------
Virtual worlds have become very popular recently, in particular 3D virtual worlds with a built-in virtual currency that enables providers and users to monetize their creations. Virtual Worlds based on the relatively new open-source and free-to-install “OpenSimulator” software currently lack such a virtual currency framework, in particular one that can be used across the boundaries of such virtual worlds (also known as grids). In this paper we present the design of such a micropayment system for this class of virtual worlds. The functionality expected by the users of such a 3D environment is somewhat different from what is usually expected from Web payment systems. A particular challenge is the fact that parts of the software that our system is to be integrated with cannot be trusted, as they are run by unknown parties, and can easily be modified (as it is open-source software). Transaction values in such a virtual environment are usually very small, so the cost of a transaction is also of concern. The system has already been implemented and is used by a number of such virtual worlds.
---------------------------------
With the aim of building a spatial gesture generation mechanism in Metaverse avatars, we report on an empirical study for multimodal direction-giving dialogues and propose a prototype system for gesture generation. First, we conducted an experiment in which a direction receiver asked for directions to some place on a university campus, and the direction giver gave directions. Then, using a machine learning technique, we annotated the direction giver’s right-hand gestures automatically and analyzed the distribution of the direction of the gestures. As a result, we proposed four types of proxemics and found that the distribution of gesture directions differs with the type of proxemics between the conversational participants. Finally, we implement a gesture generation mechanism into a Metaverse application and demonstrate an example.
---------------------------------
The immersive technologies of virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) are reaching maturity levels that will soon enable widespread deployment in consumer markets. At the same time, major corporations have begun investing billions of dollars annually on immersive technologies and platforms. Combined, these conditions greatly increase prospects for broad adoption of virtual and augmented environments by large populations. Recently branded “the metaverse” by Meta and other platform providers, many major corporations have expressed plans for deploying consumer products within the next three to five years. With the prospect that the metaverse platforms gain broad adoption over the next decade, it’s important to consider the risks and plan for meaningful regulation as necessary. 
---------------------------------
With the introduction of Metaverse, its use is increasing day by day. In this study, the factors affecting the historical development of Metaverse, the Metaverse architecture and the use of Metaverse in the field of education are discussed. The strengths and weaknesses of the use of Metaverse in the field of education are emphasized; the opportunities it will offer and the problems and threats that may be encountered are examined. Since Metaverse is a new concept, a resource for the use of Metaverse in the field of education has been tried to put forward by using the limited number of sources currently available in the literature. In this study, it is emphasized that the Metaverse environment can add a new dimension to the field of educational technologies. However, it should be taken into account that the necessary technologies and architectures in this field are not mature enough yet. Therefore, it is considered a necessity to determine appropriate strategies for the use of Metaverse in the educational field and to start determining its widespread effect until the infrastructure of Metaverse matures.
---------------------------------
This project for learning nuclear energy safety was carried out through e-learning. Problem Based Learning (PBL) was selected as the educational tool and Metaverse as the class environment. The virtual classroom was built on a virtual island of Second Life owned by Nagaoka University of Technology. Three students from two National Technical Colleges in Japan joined the project. A teacher gave the students a short lecture and proposed the problem. Students understood the contents very well and solved the problem through chat-based discussions in Metaverse. Students’ clear and precise understanding, their high activeness of discussion and high interest for the safety of nuclear energy was apparent throughout this successful PBL class project. The results indicate very clearly that this kind of PBL class was obviously possible for actual e-learning in nuclear engineering and engineering education.
---------------------------------

---------------------------------
The metaverse is a visual world that blends the physical world and digital world. At present, the development of the metaverse is still in the early stage, and there lacks a framework for the visual construction and exploration of the metaverse. In this paper, we propose a framework that summarizes how graphics, interaction, and visualization techniques support the visual construction of the metaverse and user-centric exploration. We introduce three kinds of visual elements that compose the metaverse and the two graphical construction methods in a pipeline. We propose a taxonomy of interaction technologies based on interaction tasks, user actions, feedback and various sensory channels, and a taxonomy of visualization techniques that assist user awareness. Current potential applications and future opportunities are discussed in the context of visual construction and exploration of the metaverse. We hope this paper can provide a stepping stone for further research in the area of graphics, interaction and visualization in the metaverse.
---------------------------------
Physical intelligence (PI) is an emerging research field using new multi-functional smart materials in mechatronic designs. On the microscopic scale, PI principles give rise to unconventional transducers, which are especially useful for micro/nano-robot design with size and resource constrains. Since it is not easy to directly observe nanoscale multi-physics phenomenon, understanding their principles can be challenging. In this work, we bring PI principles into the metaverse to bridge this gap by developing two mixed reality scale models. The first example is a virtual reality (VR) 2D material twistronics visualizer to demonstrate the novel intelligent 2D materials with tunable properties as a rising field in condensed matter physics. Users can interactively control the cross-coupling multi-physics phenomena and observe the visualized material responses. The second example is centered around an Atomic Force Microscope (AFM) to illustrate its imaging and probe principles. For interaction, users can control the twist angle using atomic lattice models and feel the AFM cantilever force using custom haptic devices. We believe these tools can help precision mechatronic engineers understand and make better use of physical intelligence building blocks to design micro-electromechanical systems.
---------------------------------
Combining the current era background of the rapid development of related industries in metaverse and the social environment brought about by the COVID-19. As a result, there are more and more cases of receiving treatment for mental illness in the metaverse space. Therefore, in the current actual situation, the main body of this article is to use a game engine to build a high-realistic virtual diagnosis and treatment stage based on the metaverse. This project has two components: This project has two components: 1. Design a metaverse space scene. Designed to improve the discomfort of elderly users in the metaverse environment. 2. The PBR (Physically Based Rendering) rendering material processing method in the metaverse stage. This article aims to establish a digital diagnosis and treatment space based on the metaverse, which can help patients reduce the unfamiliarity of online diagnosis and treatment, provide a more active psychotherapy atmosphere, and reduce the discomfort of patients during the treatment process. Furthermore, based on metaverse, this article aims to build a more intelligent, realistic, and visualized digital therapy stage and the highly realistic performance of the digital therapy treatment content in the future under visualization.
---------------------------------
A virtual-world environment becomes a truly engaging platform when users have the ability to insert 3D content into the world. However, arbitrary 3D content is often not optimized for real-time rendering, limiting the ability of clients to display large scenes consisting of hundreds or thousands of objects. We present the design and implementation of an automatic, unsupervised conversion process that transforms 3D content into a format suitable for real-time rendering while minimizing loss of quality. The resulting progressive format includes a base mesh, allowing clients to quickly display the model, and a progressive portion for streaming additional detail as desired. Sirikata, an open virtual world platform, has processed over 700 models using this method.
---------------------------------
This paper examines the evolution of retailing, i.e. from traditional to electronic to metaverse retailing and sheds light on the ways metaverses influence that evolution. The spatial dimension is taken into consideration as retailers could operate simultaneously in three different, but intertwined spaces. Particular emphasis is paid to key promotional aspects and we highlight the key challenges and opportunities faced by traditional retailers, e-retailers and metaverse retailers. For the metaverse phenomenon, the authors analyse Second Life and a range of findings emerge. One key finding is that retailers need to employ a holistic and overarching approach when devising their promotional strategies, especially if they aim to operate at the metaverse stage as well. At the end, the authors recommend a range of future research avenues and note the immediate need for policy development dealing with the metaverse phenomenon.
---------------------------------
The metaverse has awakened users' expectations of an immersive interaction
that fuses the virtual digital world and the physical world across space and
time. However, the metaverse is still in its infancy, typically expanding
multi-player applications (e.g., multi-player games) to implement a prototype
with the help of 5G/Beyond 5G, Artificial Intelligence, digital twin, and other
enabling technologies. This article reviews the characteristics, key enabling
technologies, and driving applications of the state-of-the-art metaverse. We
focus on the immersive interactions perspective of the metaverse from the
tasks, inputs, and feedback across the users, digital world, and physical world
and reveal the key challenges. Afterwards, we present a multi-player
interaction prototype platform based on a cloud-edge-device collaborative
framework. Also, we evaluate it with centralized and device-to-device (D2D)
approaches to verify the efficiency and flexibility of interactions. Finally,
we point out future research approaches and discuss potential solutions to
enable more stable and higher quality multi-player interactions for metaverse
services.
---------------------------------
Metaverse has rekindled human beings' desire to further break space-time
barriers by fusing the virtual and real worlds. However, security and privacy
threats hinder us from building a utopia. A metaverse embraces various
techniques, while at the same time inheriting their pitfalls and thus exposing
large attack surfaces. Blockchain, proposed in 2008, was regarded as a key
building block of metaverses. it enables transparent and trusted computing
environments using tamper-resistant decentralized ledgers. Currently,
blockchain supports Decentralized Finance (DeFi) and Non-fungible Tokens (NFT)
for metaverses. However, the power of a blockchain has not been sufficiently
exploited. In this article, we propose a novel trustless architecture of
blockchain-enabled metaverse, aiming to provide efficient resource integration
and allocation by consolidating hardware and software components. To realize
our design objectives, we provide an On-Demand Trusted Computing Environment
(OTCE) technique based on local trust evaluation. Specifically, the
architecture adopts a hypergraph to represent a metaverse, in which each
hyperedge links a group of users with certain relationship. Then the trust
level of each user group can be evaluated based on graph analytics techniques.
Based on the trust value, each group can determine its security plan on demand,
free from interference by irrelevant nodes. Besides, OTCEs enable large-scale
and flexible application environments (sandboxes) while preserving a strong
security guarantee.
---------------------------------
This research aims to make metaverse characters more realistic by adding lip
animations learnt from videos in the wild. To achieve this, our approach is to
extend Tacotron 2 text-to-speech synthesizer to generate lip movements together
with mel spectrogram in one pass. The encoder and gate layer weights are
pre-trained on LJ Speech 1.1 data set while the decoder is retrained on 93
clips of TED talk videos extracted from LRS 3 data set. Our novel decoder
predicts displacement in 20 lip landmark positions across time, using labels
automatically extracted by OpenFace 2.0 landmark predictor. Training converged
in 7 hours using less than 5 minutes of video. We conducted ablation study for
Pre/Post-Net and pre-trained encoder weights to demonstrate the effectiveness
of transfer learning between audio and visual speech data.
---------------------------------
Metaverse expands the physical world to a new dimension, and the physical
environment and Metaverse environment can be directly connected and entered.
Voice is an indispensable communication medium in the real world and Metaverse.
Fusion of the voice with environment effects is important for user immersion in
Metaverse. In this paper, we proposed using the voice conversion based method
for the conversion of target environment effect speech. The proposed method was
named MetaSpeech, which introduces an environment effect module containing an
effect extractor to extract the environment information and an effect encoder
to encode the environment effect condition, in which gradient reversal layer
was used for adversarial training to keep the speech content and speaker
information while disentangling the environmental effects. From the experiment
results on the public dataset of LJSpeech with four environment effects, the
proposed model could complete the specific environment effect conversion and
outperforms the baseline methods from the voice conversion task.
---------------------------------
Meditation, or mindfulness, is widely used to improve mental health. With the
emergence of Virtual Reality technology, many studies have provided evidence
that meditation with VR can bring health benefits. However, to our knowledge,
there are no guidelines and comprehensive reviews in the literature on how to
conduct such research in virtual reality. In order to understand the role of VR
technology in meditation and future research opportunities, we conducted a
systematic literature review in the IEEE and ACM databases. Our process yielded
19 eligible papers and we conducted a structured analysis. We understand the
state-of-art of meditation type, design consideration and VR and technology
through these papers and conclude research opportunities and challenges for the
future.
---------------------------------
The Metaverse is a network of eXtended Reality applications (XR apps)
connected to each other, over the Internet infrastructure, allowing network
users, systems, and devices to access them. It is very challenging to implement
solutions for XR apps, due to the combination of complex concerns that should
be addressed: multiple users with non-traditional input and output devices,
different hardware platforms that should be addressed, forceful interactive
rates, and experimental interaction techniques, among other issues. Therefore,
this work aims to present a Software Product Line (SPL)-based approach to
support the development of Web XR apps. More specifically, we define a features
model that represents similarities and variables (domain analysis); we defined
a core composed of generic and reusable software artifacts (domain project);
and we developed an interface to support the instantiation of a Web XR app
family, named MetaSee Features Model Editor (domain implementation). This
approach integrates with a component of the MetaSEE architecture (Metaverse for
Software Engineering Education). A preliminary assessment found that Features
Model has conceptual consistency from the point of view of the complexity of
Web XR Apps multimodal interaction. As future work, features model and
artifacts will be increased with improvements and an evaluation with a
significant number of participants will be made.
---------------------------------
Metaverse is expected to emerge as a new paradigm for the next-generation
Internet, providing fully immersive and personalised experiences to socialize,
work, and play in self-sustaining and hyper-spatio-temporal virtual world(s).
The advancements in different technologies like augmented reality, virtual
reality, extended reality (XR), artificial intelligence (AI), and 5G/6G
communication will be the key enablers behind the realization of AI-XR
metaverse applications. While AI itself has many potential applications in the
aforementioned technologies (e.g., avatar generation, network optimization,
etc.), ensuring the security of AI in critical applications like AI-XR
metaverse applications is profoundly crucial to avoid undesirable actions that
could undermine users' privacy and safety, consequently putting their lives in
danger. To this end, we attempt to analyze the security, privacy, and
trustworthiness aspects associated with the use of various AI techniques in
AI-XR metaverse applications. Specifically, we discuss numerous such challenges
and present a taxonomy of potential solutions that could be leveraged to
develop secure, private, robust, and trustworthy AI-XR applications. To
highlight the real implications of AI-associated adversarial threats, we
designed a metaverse-specific case study and analyzed it through the
adversarial lens. Finally, we elaborate upon various open issues that require
further research interest from the community.
---------------------------------
With the development of blockchain and communication techniques, the
Metaverse is considered as a promising next-generation Internet paradigm, which
enables the connection between reality and the virtual world. The key to
rendering a virtual world is to provide users with immersive experiences and
virtual avatars, which is based on virtual reality (VR) technology and high
data transmission rate. However, current VR devices require intensive
computation and communication, and users suffer from high delay while using
wireless VR devices. To build the connection between reality and the virtual
world with current technologies, mobile augmented reality (MAR) is a feasible
alternative solution due to its cheaper communication and computation cost.
This paper proposes an MAR-based connection model for the Metaverse, and
proposes a communication resources allocation algorithm based on outer
approximation (OA) to achieve the best utility. Simulation results show that
our proposed algorithm is able to provide users with basic MAR services for the
Metaverse, and outperforms the benchmark greedy algorithm.
---------------------------------
With the advances of the Internet of Things (IoT) and 5G/6G wireless
communications, the paradigms of mobile computing have developed dramatically
in recent years, from centralized mobile cloud computing to distributed fog
computing and mobile edge computing (MEC). MEC pushes compute-intensive
assignments to the edge of the network and brings resources as close to the
endpoints as possible, addressing the shortcomings of mobile devices with
regard to storage space, resource optimisation, computational performance and
efficiency. Compared to cloud computing, as the distributed and closer
infrastructure, the convergence of MEC with other emerging technologies,
including the Metaverse, 6G wireless communications, artificial intelligence
(AI), and blockchain, also solves the problems of network resource allocation,
more network load as well as latency requirements. Accordingly, this paper
investigates the computational paradigms used to meet the stringent
requirements of modern applications. The application scenarios of MEC in mobile
augmented reality (MAR) are provided. Furthermore, this survey presents the
motivation of MEC-based Metaverse and introduces the applications of MEC to the
Metaverse. Particular emphasis is given on a set of technical fusions mentioned
above, e.g., 6G with MEC paradigm, MEC strengthened by blockchain, etc.
---------------------------------
Metaverse applications that incorporate Mobile Augmented Reality (MAR)
provide mixed and immersive experiences by amalgamating the virtual with the
physical world. Notably, due to their multi-modality such applications are
demanding in terms of energy consumption, computing and caching resources to
efficiently support foreground interactions of participating users and rich
background content. In this paper, the metaverse service is decomposed and
anchored at suitable edge caching/computing nodes in 5G and beyond networks to
enable efficient processing of background metaverse region models embedded with
target AROs. To achieve that, a joint optimization problem is proposed, which
explicitly considers the user physical mobility, service decomposition, and the
balance between service delay, user perception quality and power consumption. A
wide set of numerical investigations reveal that, the proposed scheme could
provide optimal decision making and outperform other nominal baseline schemes
which are oblivious of user mobility as well as do not consider service
decomposition.
---------------------------------
The advances in Artificial Intelligence (AI) have led to technological
advancements in a plethora of domains. Healthcare, education, and smart city
services are now enriched with AI capabilities. These technological
advancements would not have been realized without the assistance of fast,
secure, and fault-tolerant communication media. Traditional processing,
communication and storage technologies cannot maintain high levels of
scalability and user experience for immersive services. The metaverse is an
immersive three-dimensional (3D) virtual world that integrates fantasy and
reality into a virtual environment using advanced virtual reality (VR) and
augmented reality (AR) devices. Such an environment is still being developed
and requires extensive research in order for it to be realized to its highest
attainable levels. In this article, we discuss some of the key issues required
in order to attain realization of metaverse services. We propose a framework
that integrates digital twin (DT) with other advanced technologies such as the
sixth generation (6G) communication network, blockchain, and AI, to maintain
continuous end-to-end metaverse services. This article also outlines
requirements for an integrated, DT-enabled metaverse framework and provides a
look ahead into the evolving topic.
---------------------------------
With the boom in metaverse-related projects in major areas of the public's
life, the safety of users becomes a pressing concern. We believe that an
international legal framework should be established to promote collaboration
among nations, facilitate crime investigation, and support democratic
governance. In this paper, we discuss the legal concerns of identity, crimes
that could occur based on incidents in existing virtual worlds, and challenges
to unified law enforcement in the metaverse.
---------------------------------
Classically, rasterization techniques are performed for real-time rendering
to meet the constraint of interactive frame rates. However, such techniques do
not produce realistic results as compared to ray tracing approaches. Hence,
hybrid rendering has emerged to improve the graphics fidelity of rasterization
with ray tracing in real-time. We explore the approach of distributed rendering
in incorporating real-time hybrid rendering into metaverse experiences for
immersive graphics. In standalone extended reality (XR) devices, such ray
tracing-enabled graphics is only feasible through pure cloud-based remote
rendering systems that rely on low-latency networks to transmit real-time
ray-traced data in response to interactive user input. Under high network
latency conditions, remote rendering might not be able to maintain interactive
frame rates for the client, adversely affecting the user experience. We adopt
hybrid rendering via a distributed rendering approach by integrating ray
tracing on powerful remote hardware with raster-based rendering on user access
devices. With this hybrid approach, our technique can help standalone XR
devices achieve ray tracing-incorporated graphics and maintain interactive
frame rates even under high-latency conditions.
---------------------------------
Improving the interactivity and interconnectivity between people is one of
the highlights of the Metaverse. The Metaverse relies on a core approach,
digital twinning, which is a means to replicate physical world objects, people,
actions and scenes onto the virtual world. Being able to access scenes and
information associated with the physical world, in the Metaverse in real-time
and under mobility, is essential in developing a highly accessible, interactive
and interconnective experience for all users. This development allows users
from other locations to access high-quality real-world and up-to-date
information about events happening in another location, and socialize with
others hyper-interactively. Nevertheless, receiving continual, smooth updates
generated by others from the Metaverse is a challenging task due to the large
data size of the virtual world graphics and the need for low latency
transmission. With the development of Mobile Augmented Reality (MAR), users can
interact via the Metaverse in a highly interactive manner, even under mobility.
Hence in our work, we considered an environment with users in moving Internet
of Vehicles (IoV), downloading real-time virtual world updates from Metaverse
Service Provider Cell Stations (MSPCSs) via wireless communications. We design
an environment with multiple cell stations, where there will be a handover of
users' virtual world graphic download tasks between cell stations. As
transmission latency is the primary concern in receiving virtual world updates
under mobility, our work aims to allocate system resources to minimize the
total time taken for users in vehicles to download their virtual world scenes
from the cell stations. We utilize deep reinforcement learning and evaluate the
performance of the algorithms under different environmental configurations. Our
work provides a use case of the Metaverse over AI-enabled 6G communications.
---------------------------------
The rapid progress in digitalization and automation have led to an
accelerated growth in healthcare, generating novel models that are creating new
channels for rendering treatment with reduced cost. The Metaverse is an
emerging technology in the digital space which has huge potential in
healthcare, enabling realistic experiences to the patients as well as the
medical practitioners. The Metaverse is a confluence of multiple enabling
technologies such as artificial intelligence, virtual reality, augmented
reality, internet of medical devices, robotics, quantum computing, etc. through
which new directions for providing quality healthcare treatment and services
can be explored. The amalgamation of these technologies ensures immersive,
intimate and personalized patient care. It also provides adaptive intelligent
solutions that eliminates the barriers between healthcare providers and
receivers. This article provides a comprehensive review of the Metaverse for
healthcare, emphasizing on the state of the art, the enabling technologies for
adopting the Metaverse for healthcare, the potential applications and the
related projects. The issues in the adaptation of the Metaverse for healthcare
applications are also identified and the plausible solutions are highlighted as
part of future research directions.
---------------------------------
Since 2021, the term "Metaverse" has been the most popular one, garnering a
lot of interest. Because of its contained environment and built-in computing
and networking capabilities, a modern car makes an intriguing location to host
its own little metaverse. Additionally, the travellers don't have much to do to
pass the time while traveling, making them ideal customers for immersive
services. Vetaverse (Vehicular-Metaverse), which we define as the future
continuum between vehicular industries and Metaverse, is envisioned as a
blended immersive realm that scales up to cities and countries, as digital
twins of the intelligent Transportation Systems, referred to as "TS-Metaverse",
as well as customized XR services inside each Individual Vehicle, referred to
as "IV-Metaverse". The two subcategories serve fundamentally different
purposes, namely long-term interconnection, maintenance, monitoring, and
management on scale for large transportation systems (TS), and personalized,
private, and immersive infotainment services (IV). By outlining the framework
of Vetaverse and examining important enabler technologies, we reveal this
impending trend. Additionally, we examine unresolved issues and potential
routes for future study while highlighting some intriguing Vetaverse services.
---------------------------------
As a fusion of various emerging digital technologies, the Metaverse aims to
build a virtual shared digital space. It is closely related to extended
reality, digital twin, blockchain, and other technologies. Its goal is to build
a digital space based on the real world, form a virtual economic system, and
expand the space of human activities, which injects new vitality into the
social, economic, and other fields. In this article, we make the following
contributions. We first introduce the basic concepts such as the development
process, definition, and characteristics of the Metaverse. After that, we
analyze the overall framework and supporting technologies of the Metaverse and
summarize the status of common fields. Finally, we focus on the security and
privacy issues that exist in the Metaverse, and give corresponding solutions or
directions. We also discuss the challenges and possible research directions of
the Metaverse. We believe this comprehensive review can provide an overview of
the Metaverse and research directions for some multidisciplinary studies.
---------------------------------
The metaverse is said to be the future Internet and will consist of several
worlds called verses. This concept is being discussed a lot lately, however,
the security issues of these virtual worlds are not discussed enough. This
study first discusses the privacy and security concerns of the metaverse.
Virtual reality headsets are the main devices used to access the Metaverse. The
user needs to verify their identity to log in to the metaverse platforms, and
the security of this phase becomes vital. This paper aims to compare the
security of the main authentication methods that are used in virtual reality
environments. Information-based, biometric, and multi-model methods are
compared and analyzed in terms of security. These methods aim to verify the
user with different data types such as 3D patterns, PIN systems, or biometric
data. The pros and cons are discussed. The paper also concludes with what work
can be done to improve the safety of these authentication methods and future
work.
---------------------------------
We are living in the era of big data. The Metaverse is an emerging technology
in the future, and it has a combination of big data, AI (artificial
intelligence), VR (Virtual Reality), AR (Augmented Reality), MR (mixed
reality), and other technologies that will diminish the difference between
online and real-life interaction. It has the goal of becoming a platform where
we can work, go shopping, play around, and socialize. Each user who enters the
Metaverse interacts with the virtual world in a data way. With the development
and application of the Metaverse, the data will continue to grow, thus forming
a big data network, which will bring huge data processing pressure to the
digital world. Therefore, big data processing technology is one of the key
technologies to implement the Metaverse. In this survey, we provide a
comprehensive review of how Metaverse is changing big data. Moreover, we
discuss the key security and privacy of Metaverse big data in detail. Finally,
we summarize the open problems and opportunities of Metaverse, as well as the
future of Metaverse with big data. We hope that this survey will provide
researchers with the research direction and prospects of applying big data in
the Metaverse.
---------------------------------
Metaverse is a vast virtual environment parallel to the physical world in
which users enjoy a variety of services acting as an avatar. To build a secure
living habitat, it's vital to ensure the virtual-physical traceability that
tracking a malicious player in the physical world via his avatars in virtual
space. In this paper, we propose a two-factor authentication framework based on
chameleon signature and biometric-based authentication. First, aiming at
disguise in virtual space, we propose a chameleon collision signature algorithm
to achieve the verifiability of the avatar's virtual identity. Second, facing
at impersonation in physical world, we construct an avatar's identity model
based on the player's biometric template and the chameleon key to realize the
verifiability of the avatar's physical identity. Finally, we design two
decentralized authentication protocols based on the avatar's identity model to
ensure the consistency of the avatar's virtual and physical identities.
Security analysis indicates that the proposed authentication framework
guarantees the consistency and traceability of avatar's identity. Simulation
experiments show that the framework not only completes the decentralized
authentication between avatars but also achieves the virtual-physical tracking.
---------------------------------
Social virtual reality (VR) has the potential to gradually replace traditional online social media, thanks to recent advances in consumer-grade VR devices and VR technology itself. As the vital foundation for building the Metaverse, social VR has been extensively examined by the computer graphics and HCI communities. However, there has been little systematic study dissecting the network performance of social VR, other than hype in the industry. To fill this critical gap, we conduct an in-depth measurement study of five popular social VR platforms: AltspaceVR, Horizon Worlds, Mozilla Hubs, Rec Room, and VRChat. Our experimental results reveal that all these platforms are still in their early stage and face fundamental technical challenges to realize the grand vision of Metaverse. For example, their throughput, end-to-end latency, and on-device computation resource utilization increase almost linearly with the number of users, leading to potential scalability issues. We identify the platform servers' direct forwarding of avatar data for embodying users without further processing as the main reason for the poor scalability and discuss potential solutions to address this problem. Moreover, while the visual quality of the current avatar embodiment is low and fails to provide a truly immersive experience, improving the avatar embodiment will consume more network bandwidth and further increase computation overhead and latency, making the scalability issues even more pressing.
---------------------------------
Individuals and organizations from developing economies are participating at an increasing rate in the metaverse economy. This article gives an overview of the key benefits to these economies that stem from the metaverse and highlights some challenges that need to be overcome.
---------------------------------
The advancement of human–computer interfaces and computational power enables the creation of believable virtual worlds. These were once limited to the gaming community but are now used for business purposes, including industrial applications, health, education.
---------------------------------
Social metaverse with VR has been viewed as a paradigm shift for social media. However, most traditional VR social platforms ignore emerging characteristics in a metaverse, thereby failing to boost user satisfaction. In this paper, we explore a scenario of socializing in metaverse with VR, which brings major advantages over conventional social media: 1) leverage flexible display of users' 360-degree viewports to satisfy individual user interests, 2) ensure the user feelings of co-existence, 3) prevent view obstruction to help users find friends in crowds, and 4) support socializing with digital twins. Therefore, we formulate the Co-presence, and Occlusion-aware Metaverse User Recommendation (COMUR) problem to recommend a set of rendered players for users in social metaverse with VR. We prove COMUR is an NP-hard optimization problem and design a dual-module deep graph learning framework (COMURNet) to recommend appropriate users for viewport display. Experimental results on real social metaverse datasets and a user study with Occulus Quest 2 manifest that the proposed model outperforms baseline approaches by at least 36.7% of solution quality.
---------------------------------
Extended Reality (XR) — an umbrella term for Augmented Reality (AR), Virtual Reality (VR) and Mixed Reality (MR) — has penetrated the consumer market and is prone to increasingly impact our lives in the near future. Various devices, e.g., MR glasses, AR smartphones apps, or VR headsets, are becoming more affordable, and leader tech companies are heavily investing for a more immersive, realistic, and connected future. Lately, this vision of an interconnected virtual space for people to work, learn, play and share experiences with others has been formulated as the so-called “Metaverse”. This expected paradigm shift will heavily rely on XR, and hence implies an unprecedented amount of sensible data being collected about the users. Indeed, XR devices collect large amounts of sensitive data, including biometric data (e.g., eye gaze and body movement data) that are primarily used as Natural User Interfaces (NUIs) or for the proper functioning of technologies and services. However, research has identified a number of privacy and security threats rooting from this pervasive data collection, as well as privacy threats regarding XR inputs, outputs, user interactions and devices themselves. Still, further efforts must be made to guarantee the privacy and safety of users in a usable fashion in the future, and XR must be considered as a whole rather than as the sum of its parts to match the vision of the Metaverse. In this context, we propose to analyse the gap between user privacy perceptions in XR as a whole, and their concrete behaviour. The goal of this research is to understand the differences and similarities between AR, MR and VR in terms of user privacy perceptions. This will help us to better understand the relationships between XR variants, which, we argue, is an important requirement to approach the future evolution of these technologies, and to consider usable privacy aspects that match the entire XR spectrum. Adopting this vision early on will be beneficial for future work, and will be the foundation for the implementation of a usable privacy-preserving solution in order to raise awareness and empower users by giving them more control over their privacy in the context of these new and future technologies.
---------------------------------
The future of networking will be driven by the current emerging trends of combining the physical and virtual realities in cyberspace. Considering the ambient pandemic challenges, the role of virtual and augmented reality will definitely grow over time by transforming into the paradigm of the Metaverse of Things, where each person, thing or other entity will simultaneously exist within multiple synchronized realities. In this paper, we propose a novel framework for future metaverse applications composed of multiple synchronized data flows from multiple operators through multiple wearable devices and with different quality requirements. A new service quality model is proposed based on a customizable utility function for each individual data flow. The proposed approach is based on dynamic fine-grained data flow allocation and service selection using non-fungible tokens, which can be traded over the blockchain among users and operators in a decentralized mobile network environment.
---------------------------------
During the COVID-19 pandemic, engagement in various remote activities such as online education and meetings has increased. However, since the conventional online environments typically provide simple streaming services using cameras and microphones, there have limitations in terms of physical expression and experiencing real-world activities such as cultural and economic activities. Recently, metaverse environments, three-dimensional virtual reality that use avatars, have attracted increasing attention as a means to solve these problems. Thus, many metaverse platforms such as Roblox, Minecraft, and Fortnite have been emerging to provide various services to users. However, such metaverse environments are potentially vulnerable to various security threats because the users and platform servers communicate through public channels. In addition, sensitive user data such as identity, password, and biometric information are managed by each platform server. In this paper, we design a system model that can guarantee secure communication and transparently manage user identification data in metaverse environments using blockchain technology. We also propose a mutual authentication scheme using biometric information and Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) to provide secure communication between users and platform servers and secure avatar interactions between avatars and avatars. To demonstrate the security of the proposed mutual authentication scheme, we perform informal security analysis, Burrows–Abadi–Needham (BAN) logic, Real-or-Random (ROR) model, and Automated Validation of Internet Security Protocols and Applications (AVISPA). In addition, we compare the computation costs, communication costs, and security features of the proposed scheme with existing schemes in similar environments. The results demonstrate that the proposed scheme has lower computation and communication costs and can provide a wider range of security features than existing schemes. Thus, our proposed scheme can be used to provide secure metaverse environments.
---------------------------------
Briefing: An investigation and outline of MetaControl and DeControl in Metaverses for control intelligence and knowledge automation are presented. Prescriptive control with prescriptive knowledge and parallel philosophy is proposed as the starting point for the new control philosophy and technology, especially for computational control of metasystems in cyber-physical-social systems. We argue that circular causality, the generalized feedback mechanism for complex and purposive systems, should be adapted as the fundamental principle for control and management of metasystems with metacomplexity in metaverses. Particularly, an interdisciplinary approach is suggested for MetaControl and DeControl as a new form of intelligent control based on five control metaverses: Meta Verses, MultiVerses, InterVerses, TransVerse, and Deep Verses.
---------------------------------
A total of 12 years have been passed since this Department was created in 2010 as the first academic forum dedicated to cyber-physical-social systems (CPSS), with the first CPSS research article on the field: “The Emergence of Intelligent Enterprises: From CPS to CPSS.” What has happened and changed during the past decade? A brief reflection and review are presented here with a focus on digital twins in CPS versus parallel intelligence in CPSS, and their relationship to blockchain intelligence, smart contracts, metaverses, DAO, Web3, and decentralized science. The concept of DeMetaverses is thus introduced and interpreted as a DAO-based decentralized autonomous metaverse. The characteristics, mechanism, and impact of DeMetaverses are discussed with a vision for achieving an integrated human, artificial, natural, and organizational intelligence that would transform our world into “6S” societies.
---------------------------------
Metaverse, a set of fully immersive digital worlds where people can interact with one another using three-dimensional (3-D) avatars, is poised to become an increasingly popular modality to communicate with others. Many in the space consider it an evolution of the Internet, with augmented and virtual reality headsets providing the hardware to both visualize and interact with it. However, creating custom 3-D content and environments for a digital world can be extremely time-consuming and costly compared to typical web pages. To this end, research in procedural content generation is required to empower the efficient creation of high-quality multimedia contents for the metaverse. One other core concern when creating a fully decentralized metaverse is the need to download relevant environments on demand as people traverse across different worlds. Further research by the multimedia community on efficient multimedia networking, storage, and compression is necessary to ensure that digital worlds remain easily accessible to others.
---------------------------------
The Metaverse provides a novel experience to the user, by opening the doors to social-based multiuser environments merging physical reality with digital virtuality. In this paper, we present an initial analysis of the Quality of Experience (QoE) in the Metaverse. We first consider traditional influence factors (human, system, and context). Then, we introduce the social and economic dimensions of the Metaverse as additional factors to be considered for QoE assessment. Finally, we discuss what QoE assessment methods can be more suitable for Metaverse applications, with a particular focus on implicit assessment methods (e.g., physiological, human cognitive, affective behaviour).
---------------------------------
Johannes Gutenberg’s invention of the printing press in 1450 revolutionized society and heralded 300 years of renaissance. While Gutenberg’s invention gave birth to printing, the Internet’s full potential still remains to be unleashed in the years to come. We do not yet know what the Internet truly is, though its impact is anticipated to be eventually similar or even superior to that of the printing press. Measured in Gutenberg time, we stand today at about the year 1481 with the progression of disruption in society. Note that Luther was born in the year 1483. Hence, the Internet’s Martin Luther is yet to come. This paper aims at developing an overarching narrative for future 6G and Next G networks, which go beyond the incremental 6G= 5G +1G mindset of past generations of mobile networks and also involve major over-the-top Internet players, including Apple, Google, Microsoft, as well as Facebook. We focus particularly on the emerging Metaverse, the anticipated successor to today’s mobile Internet, which will be about being inside the Internet (rather than simply looking at it from a phone screen) and producing peak-experiences. This is in contrast to only printing & pamphlets about them, as Luther had to do in a pre-Internet era.
---------------------------------
There is an increase of interest in Metaverse and Augmented Reality. This paper exposes argumentation to conceptualize an Augmented Digital Ecosystem as part of an Augmented Dimension along with other elements also described such as Cyberspace, Metaverse and Virtual Worlds (VW).
---------------------------------
The purpose of this study is to examine the current status of Metaverse by reflecting Metaverses’ various field cases and national policies, and discuss the opportunities and changes that can be obtained at the Metaverse utilization plan and individual, enterprise, and government levels.
---------------------------------
While online learning had traditionally been implemented to aid in-person education, it has recently evolved into a critical tool for remote education. In particular, the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the spread of online learning and its significance. However, this wave of innovation in the education field has revealed the lack of research on how online education should be systematically provided and which educational aspects should be considered to enhance learner satisfaction in online settings. With the recent emergence of the Metaverse, VR education is once again proposed as a major tool for online learning despite existing limitations in research which put both systematic and educational aspects into consideration. Hence, this study presents and discusses a research model that converges technology acceptance model, information systems success model, and self-determination theory with the purpose of exploring variables that affect learner satisfaction, mediating the flow theory. Results showed that most variables of both self-determination theory and information system quality within VR education impact learner satisfaction. In particular, learners’ flow – complete immersion in learning – functions as an important mediating variable for learner satisfaction. These findings suggest designing and running a systematic platform that reflects self-directed learning is imperative to bring the best educational practices into the Metaverse.
---------------------------------
This study aims to introduce and explain how to develop a metaverse based immersive and experiential tourist contents. The project plans to introduce long-term and highly scalable new concept platform by developing virtual metaverse surfing village centered on Song-Jeong beach which is popular surfing destination in South Korea. The project consists of the following 5 tasks: The first Task is to develop Metaverse-based hyper-immersive interactive content which include implementation of surfing village virtualization by identifying an analyzing the components through spatial analysis. Second Task is developing VR/AR based experiential content. In this task, AI based service contents that can provide optimized surfing posture and correction service and virtual surfing experience contents will be developed. The third task is developing contents that provide integrated information linked to local tourism and leisure infrastructure. To do that AI based smart tourism service will be developed. The fourth task is to develop business model for interactive metaverse platform. Lastly, the fifth task is demonstration stage of the platform. This task includes promotion of demonstration platform, operating expert advisory group, and establishment of longterm expansion plan.
---------------------------------
The South Korean cosmetics industry is loved by the whole world in the name of ‘K-beauty’ together with the Hallyu culture, and has been established as one of South Korea’s key export items. In particular, lots of changes occur rapidly due to the development of telecommunication and the introduction of new technologies, and also changes caused by COVID-19 have brought about great changes in all the areas of distribution and sales. In addition, the consumption of the MZ generation shows different patterns from the existing consumer generations, and a new change in distribution and sales start in earnest according as their influence grows. While metaverse platform services, which are yet in their early stages, are now used mostly by entertainment area and global large companies, it is deemed that continuous investment and technological innovation will accelerate the expansion of metaverse platforms. Currently, response to cosmetics industry in the metaverse platform market is trivial, but cosmetics industry will also have to provide services through the market of this new type before long. For this, it should understand the consumption tendency of the main consumers, and grope for marketing strategies responding to it. The strategies are as follows: First, the consumption patterns of the MZ generation, which will grow as a main consumer group in the future though they are not a current main consumption group, should be understood, and marketing methods should be developed in agreement with consumption patterns pursued by them. Second, PR and marketing embracing the values of the MZ generation, such as environment and value-based consumption should be carried out, and services of real-time communication through stories sympathized by the MZ generation should be provided. Third, while offline experience is important, the marketing of experience in metaverse platforms should be provided, and goods that enable two-way communication and simultaneous enjoyment should be provided by planning and developing goods that allow linkage between metaverse and offline, Lastly, it is deemed that strategies for attracting consumers by providing contents of amusement and fun should be used.
---------------------------------
This study intends to consider problems relating to intellectual property among various problems that may occur in the metaverse platform, a major next-generation platform that links the real world and the virtual world. For this, this study investigates services currently provided by cosmetic companies in the metaverse platform, finds out possible intellectual property related problems that may occur to the cosmetic companies, and seeks solutions to the problems. Although it seems that there is not yet a great problem or issue relating to meta verse platforms because matters relating to intellectual property in metaverse platforms are at their early stages, it is supposed that they will become issues requiting seiious discussion according as their number increase. It seems necessary to conduct relevant studies and make a thorough preparation for legal regulation and procedure in advance so that intellectual property rights may be protected safely.
---------------------------------
Metaverse is an extension of synchronous communication that includes an efficient number of users to share different experiences. The study aims to investigate the acceptance of Metaverse-related projects by employees of technology companies in Vietnam, thereby finding out the characteristics that hinder the implementation of Metaverse. Moreover, the study also gives recommendations to develop Metaverse projects in Vietnam, especially in Technology companies, relying on 5 variables Perceived Compatibility, Perceived Trialability, Perceived Ease of Use, Perceived Usefulness, and Intention to Use. Authors already gained roughly 312 responses based on block simple random sampling. This study was conducted based on a survey of IT enterprises in Vietnam, thereby assessing the characteristics affecting the decision to participate in or implement Metaverse projects of enterprises.
---------------------------------
The concept of the metaverse dates to 1992; however, the popularity of this concept has gained increased attention in 2021 following the announcement by Mark Zuckerberg to rebrand Facebook as Meta. The topic of the metaverse is not new but an attractive topic that is gaining increased insight from researchers. This research focuses on a broader evaluation of the metaverse and its key elements and features of the metaverse. Even though metaverse is expected as a promising platform for information exchange and communication among internet users, it has several shortcomings such as requiring high-performance client terminals and a long response time in some cases. We address issues by introducing an interoperable Split- protocol with role changeover ability for resiliency and high availability of metaverse systems. The paper highlights key security and privacy threats, as well as the critical challenges in security defenses and privacy preservation under the distributed metaverse architecture."
---------------------------------
